English:Connect
Translated:Bağlan

English:Disconnect
Translated:Bağlantıyı Kes

English:Status
Translated:Durum

English:Connected
Translated:Bağlandı

English:Not Connected
Translated:Bağlanılamadı

English:Select Printer
Translated:Yazıcı Seç

English:Options
Translated: Seçenekler

English:Next Print
Translated:Sonraki Baskı

English:Add
Translated:Ekle

English:Add a file to be printed
Translated:Yazılacak Bir Dosya Ekle

English:Start
Translated:Başlat

English:Begin printing the selected item.
Translated:Seçilen öğeyi yazmaya başla

English:Skip
Translated:Atla

English:Skip the current item and move to the next in queue
Translated:Seçili öğeyi atla ve sıradakine geç

English:Remove
Translated:Sil

English:Remove current item from queue
Translated:Seçili öğeyi yazma sırasından çıkart

English:Pause
Translated:Duraklat

English:Pause the current print
Translated:Aktif baskıyı duraklat

English:Cancel Connect
Translated:Bağlantıyı iptal et

English:Stop trying to connect to the printer.
Translated:Yazıcıya bağlanmaya çalışmayı durdur

English:Cancel
Translated:İptal

English:Stop the current print
Translated: Aktif yazmayı durdur

English:Resume
Translated:Devam et

English:Resume the current print
Translated:Aktif baskıyı devam ettir.

English:Reprint
Translated:Yeniden yazdır

English:Print current item again
Translated:Aktif ögeyi yeniden yazdır

English:Done
Translated:Bitti

English:Move to next print in queue
Translated:Sıradaki yeni öğeye geç

English:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer.
Translated:Herhangi bir yazıcı seçilmedi.  Yazıcı seçmek için " bağlan " a basınız. ( bağlan = connect )

English:Press 'Add' to choose an item to print
Translated: Yazılacak öğe seçmek için "ekle" ye basınız. ( ekle = Add )

English:No items in the print queue
Translated: Yazma sırasında hiç öğe yok

English:Queued to Print
Translated:Baskı için sıraya alındı

English:View
Translated:Göster

English:Copy
Translated: Kopyala

English:Add to Queue
Translated: Sıraya Ekle

English:Export
Translated:Ver

English:Est. Print Time
Translated:Tahmini Baskı Süresi

English:Calculating...
Translated:Hesaplanıyor...

English:complete
Translated:Tamamlandı

English:Remove All
Translated:Hepsini Sil

English:Queue Options
Translated:Sıralama Seçenekleri

English: Import from Zip
Translated: Zip'ten Dosya al

English: Export to Zip
Translated: Zip olarak kaydet

English: Export to Folder
Translated: Dosyaya ver

English:Extra
Translated:Extra

English: Create Part Sheet
Translated: Parça Dosyası oluştur

English:Search
Translated:Ara

English:Import
Translated:Dosya Al

English:Create
Translated:Oluştur

English:Check for Update
Translated:Güncellemeleri Kontrol Et

English:Download Update
Translated:Güncellemeleri indir

English:Install Update
Translated:Güncellemeleri Yükle

English:There are updates available.
Translated:Güncellemeler Mevcut

English:Checking for updates...
Translated:Güncellemeler kontrol ediliyor

English:MatterControl
Translated:MatterControl

English:Version {0}
Translated:Versiyon {0}

English:Developed by MatterHackers
Translated: MatterHackers tarafından geliştirilmiştir.

English:Please consider 
Translated:Lütfen Dikkate Alınız

English:donating
Translated:donating

English: to help support and improve MatterControl.
Translated: Destek Merkezine yardım etmek ve MatterControl'ü geliştirmek için

English:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on
Translated: Alessandro Ranellucci ' ye harika çalışmalarından ötürü teşekkürler.

English:Slic3r
Translated:Slic3r

English:and to David Braam and Ultimaker BV, for the amazing 
Translated:ayrıca David Braam ve Ultimaker BV' ye harika 

English:CuraEngine
Translated:CuraEngine

English:Send Feedback
Translated:Geri bildirim gönder

English:www.matterhackers.com
Translated:www.matterhackers.com

English:Copyright © 2014 MatterHackers, Inc.
Translated:Copyright © 2014 MatterHackers, Inc.

English:Build: {0} | 
Translated:Build {0} | 

English:Clear Cache
Translated:Clear Cache

English:Queue
Translated:Sırada

English:Rotate
Translated:Döndür

English:Scale
Translated:Ölçeklendir

English:Mirror
Translated:Aynala

English:Display
Translated:Göster

English:Show Print Bed
Translated:Baskı tablasını göster

English:Show Print Area
Translated:Baskı alanını göster

English:Show Wireframe
Translated:Tel Kafes göster

English:Auto-Arrange
Translated:Otomatik Ayarla

English:Save
Translated:Kaydet
English:Degrees
Translated:Derece

English:Align to Bed
Translated:Tablaya Hizala

English:Ratio
Translated:Oran

English:Conversions
Translated:Dönüştürmeler

English:reset
Translated:Yenile

English:Apply Scale
Translated:Ölçeklendir

English:Finding Parts
Translated:Parçalar Bulunuyor

English:Edit
Translated:Düzenle

English:Delete
Translated:Sil

English:Close
Translated:Kapat

English:Generate
Translated:Dilimle

English:No GCode Available...
Translated:Ulaşılabilir Gcode yok...

English:Loading GCode...
Translated: GCode Yükleniyor...

English:Press 'generate' to view layers
Translated: Katmanları görmek için 'Dilimle' tuşuna basınız.

English:Model
Translated:Model

English:Layer
Translated:Katman

English:Library
Translated:Kütüphane

English:About
Translated:Hakkında

English:Advanced\nControls
Translated:Gelişmiş\Kontroller

English:Print\nQueue
Translated:Yazdır\Sıra

English:Actual
Translated:MEvcut

English:Target
Translated:Hedef

English:Presets
Translated:Ayarla

English:Movement Controls
Translated:Hareket Kontrolleri

English:ALL
Translated:Hepsi

English:UNLOCK
Translated:Kilidi Aç

English:Retract
Translated:Çekilme

English:Extrude
Translated:Ekstruze et

English:Communications
Translated:İletişim

English:SHOW TERMINAL
Translated:Bağlantıyı göster

English:Fan Controls
Translated:Fan Kontroller

English:Fan Speed:
Translated:Fan Hızı:

English:Macros
Translated:Makro

English:No macros are currently setup for this printer.
Translated:Bu yazıcı için oluşturulmuş makro bulunmamaktadır.

English:Tuning Adjustment (while printing)
Translated:İlerleme hızı (Baskı sırasında)

English:Speed Multiplier
Translated:Extrüzyon hızı

English:Set
Translated:Ayarla

English:Extrusion Multiplier
Translated:Ekstrüzyon Hızı

English:Controls
Translated:Kontroller

English:Slice Settings
Translated:Seçenekler

English:Show Help
Translated:Yardımı göster

English:Show All Settings
Translated:Tüm seçenekleri göster

English:Active Settings
Translated:Active Settings

English:unsaved changes
Translated:Kaydedilmemiş Ayarlar

English:Revert
Translated:Geri AL

English:Options   
Translated:Seçenekler   

English:Slice Engine
Translated:Dilimleme Motoru

English:No Printer Selected
Translated:Yazıcı Seçilmedi

English:No printer is currently selected. Select printer to edit slice settings.
Translated:Seçilmiş yazıcı yok. Dilimleme ayarları için yazıcı seçiniz.

English:Attempts to minimize the number of perimeter crossing. This can help with oozing or strings.
Translated:Kesişen çevre geometrilerini minimuma indir. Sızma ve yayılmaların azalmasına yardımcı olur.

English:The shape of the physical print bed.
Translated:Baskı tablasının fiziksel şekli.

English:The size of the print bed.
Translated:Baskı tablasının ölçüleri.

English:The temperature to set the bed to after the first layer has been printed. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:İlk katman yazıldıktan sonraki tabla sıcaklığını ayarla.  0 değeri tabla sıcaklık komutlarını iptal eder.

English:How many layers will be solid filled on the bottom surfaces of the object.
Translated:Yazdırılacak objenin üst yüzeyinde kaç adet katman olacağını belirler .

English:Acceleration to during bridging. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Köprü geçişlerindeki hızlanma.  0 değeri yazıcının hızlanma ayarlarını etkisiz hale getirir.

English:The fan speed to use during bridging.
Translated:Köprü geçişleri sırasındaki fan hızı.

English:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging. Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.
Translated:Köprüleme sırasındaki oranı kontrol eder. Bu değeri hafifçe azaltmak filamenti bir miktar germeye yarar, fan kullanmak ta çok yardımcı olur.

English:The speed to move when bridging between walls.
Translated:Duvarlar arasında köprüleme yapma hızı .

English:The amount of brim that will be drawn around each object. This is useful to ensure that parts stay affixed to the bed.
Translated: Obje etrafında çizilecek Kenar çizgisinin değeri. Bu seçenek parçanın tablaya sabitlendiğinden emin olamk için kullanışlıdır.

English:The height of the printable area. If set to 0 the parts height will not be validated.
Translated:Yazdırılabilecek alanın yükseklik değeri. 0 olarak ayarlanırsa parçaların yüksekliği geçerli olmaz.



English:Each individual part is printed to completion then the extruder is lowered back to the bed and the next part is printed.
Translated:Each individual part is printed to completion then the extruder is lowered back to the bed and the next part is printed.




English:Moves the extruder up off the part to allow cooling.
Translated:Soğutmaya izin vermek için extruderi parça üzerinden uzaklaştırır.

English:Turns on and off all cooling settings (all settings below this one).
Translated:Tüm soğutma seçeneklerini açar ve kapatır (Buranın altındaki tüm seçenekleri).

English:Acceleration to use on all moves not defined above. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use on all moves not defined above. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.

English:The number of layers for which the fan will be forced to remain off.
Translated:The number of layers for which the fan will be forced to remain off.

English:This gcode will be inserted at the end of all automatic output (the very end of the gcode commands).
Translated:This gcode will be inserted at the end of all automatic output (the very end of the gcode commands).

English:The speed to print the visible outside edges. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters speed.
Translated:The speed to print the visible outside edges. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters speed.

English:Normally external perimeters are printed last, this makes them go first.
Translated:Normally external perimeters are printed last, this makes them go first.

English:Allow slicer to generate extra perimeters when needed for sloping walls.
Translated:Allow slicer to generate extra perimeters when needed for sloping walls.

English:This is used to figure out how far apart individual parts must be printed to allow them to be completed before printing the next part.
Translated:This is used to figure out how far apart individual parts must be printed to allow them to be completed before printing the next part.

English:This is the offset of each extruder relative to the first extruder. Only useful for multiple extruder machines.
Translated:This is the offset of each extruder relative to the first extruder. Only useful for multiple extruder machines.

English:This is the identifier used in the gcode to specify the extruder.
Translated:This is the identifier used in the gcode to specify the extruder.

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 (1.1 is a good max value) will increase the amount of filament being extruded; decreasing it (.9 is a good min value) will decrease the amount being extruded.
Translated:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 (1.1 is a good max value) will increase the amount of filament being extruded; decreasing it (.9 is a good min value) will decrease the amount being extruded.

English:Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation of extrusion width.
Translated:Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation of extrusion width.

English:This will force the fan to remain on throughout the print. In general you should have this off and just enable auto cooling.
Translated:This will force the fan to remain on throughout the print. In general you should have this off and just enable auto cooling.

English:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the fan will be turned on.
Translated:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the fan will be turned on.

English:This should be set to the actual diameter of the filament you are using on your printer. Measure 5 times with calipers, throw out the top and bottom, and average the remaining 3.
Translated:This should be set to the actual diameter of the filament you are using on your printer. Measure 5 times with calipers, throw out the top and bottom, and average the remaining 3.

English:Sets the starting angle of the infill. Not used when bridging.
Translated:Sets the starting angle of the infill. Not used when bridging.

English:The ratio of material to empty space ranged 0 to 1. Zero would be no infill; 1 is solid infill.
Translated:The ratio of material to empty space ranged 0 to 1. Zero would be no infill; 1 is solid infill.

English:The pattern used on the inside portions of the print.
Translated:The pattern used on the inside portions of the print.

English:Acceleration to use while printing the first layer. Set to 0 to the default first layer acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use while printing the first layer. Set to 0 to the default first layer acceleration.

English:The temperature to set the bed to before printing the first layer. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:The temperature to set the bed to before printing the first layer. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.

English:Setting this to greater than 100% can often help the first layer have better adhesion to the print bed.
Translated:Setting this to greater than 100% can often help the first layer have better adhesion to the print bed.

English:Sets the height of the first layer. It is often desirable to print a taller first layer to ensure a good solid adhesion to the build plate.
Translated:Sets the height of the first layer. It is often desirable to print a taller first layer to ensure a good solid adhesion to the build plate.

English:The speed to move while printing the first layer.  If expressed as a percentage it will modify the corresponding speed set above.
Translated:The speed to move while printing the first layer.  If expressed as a percentage it will modify the corresponding speed set above.

English:The temperature to set the extruder to before printing the first layer of a part. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing.
Translated:The temperature to set the extruder to before printing the first layer of a part. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing.

English:Use G0 for moves rather than G1.
Translated:Use G0 for moves rather than G1.

English:Speed to fill small gaps. Keep low to avoid vibration. Set to 0 to skip filling small gaps.
Translated:Speed to fill small gaps. Keep low to avoid vibration. Set to 0 to skip filling small gaps.

English:Use firmware arcs rather than multiple segments for curves.
Translated:Use firmware arcs rather than multiple segments for curves.

English:Include detailed comments in the gcode.
Translated:Include detailed comments in the gcode.

English:Some firmware use different g and m codes. Setting this ensures that the output gcode will use the correct commands.
Translated:Some firmware use different g and m codes. Setting this ensures that the output gcode will use the correct commands.

English:Acceleration to use while infilling. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use while infilling. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.

English:Sets which layers will receive infill. This should normally stay set to 1 to make strong parts.
Translated:Sets which layers will receive infill. This should normally stay set to 1 to make strong parts.

English:The index of the extruder to use for infill.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for infill.

English:Sets infill to happen before perimeters are created.
Translated:Sets infill to happen before perimeters are created.

English:Creates infill only where it will be used as internal support.
Translated:Creates infill only where it will be used as internal support.

English:The speed to print infill.
Translated:The speed to print infill.

English:This gcode will be inserted right after the change in z height for the next layer.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted right after the change in z height for the next layer.

English:Sets the height of each layer of the print. A smaller number will create more layers and more vertical accuracy but also a slower print.
Translated:Sets the height of each layer of the print. A smaller number will create more layers and more vertical accuracy but also a slower print.

English:This is the maximum speed that your fan can run at.
Translated:This is the maximum speed that your fan can run at.

English:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a rectarction can occure.
Translated:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a rectarction can occure.

English:This is the minimum fan speed that your fan can run at.
Translated:This is the minimum fan speed that your fan can run at.

English:This is the minimum speed that the printer will reduce to to make the layer take long enough to satisfy the min layer time.
Translated:This is the minimum speed that the printer will reduce to to make the layer take long enough to satisfy the min layer time.

English:Sets the minimum amount of filament to use drawing the skirt loops. This will cause at least enough skirt loops to be drawn to use this amount of filament.
Translated:Sets the minimum amount of filament to use drawing the skirt loops. This will cause at least enough skirt loops to be drawn to use this amount of filament.

English:These notes will be added as comments in the header of the output gcode.
Translated:These notes will be added as comments in the header of the output gcode.

English:This is the diameter of your extruder nozle.
Translated:This is the diameter of your extruder nozle.

English:Prevents retraction while within a printing perimeter.
Translated:Prevents retraction while within a printing perimeter.

English:This will lower the temperature of the non-printing extruder to help prevent oozing.
Translated:This will lower the temperature of the non-printing extruder to help prevent oozing.

English:Experimental feature that attempts to improve overhangs using the fan and bridge settings.
Translated:Experimental feature that attempts to improve overhangs using the fan and bridge settings.

English:Sets the way that slicer creates file names (this is not used by MatterControl).
Translated:Sets the way that slicer creates file names (this is not used by MatterControl).

English:Acceleration to use on perimeters. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use on perimeters. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.

English:The index of the extruder to use for perimeters.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for perimeters.

English:Sets the default movement speed while printing perimeters.
Translated:Sets the default movement speed while printing perimeters.

English:The number of external layers or shells to create.
Translated:The number of external layers or shells to create.

English:You can include additional programs to process the gcode after slicer is finished. The complete path of the program to run should be included here.
Translated:You can include additional programs to process the gcode after slicer is finished. The complete path of the program to run should be included here.

English:The position (coordinates) of the center of the print bed.
Translated:The position (coordinates) of the center of the print bed.

English:Number of layers to print before printing any parts.
Translated:Number of layers to print before printing any parts.

English:Start each new layer from a different vertex to reduce seams.
Translated:Start each new layer from a different vertex to reduce seams.

English:The minimum distance of a non-printing move that will result in a retraction.
Translated:The minimum distance of a non-printing move that will result in a retraction.

English:If set, a retraction will occur prior to changing the layer height.
Translated:If set, a retraction will occur prior to changing the layer height.

English:The amount that the filament will be reversed after each qualifying non-printing move.
Translated:The amount that the filament will be reversed after each qualifying non-printing move.

English:The amount that the filament will be reversed before changing to a new tool.
Translated:The amount that the filament will be reversed before changing to a new tool.

English:The amount the extruder head will be lifted after each retraction.
Translated:The amount the extruder head will be lifted after each retraction.

English:The amount the filament will be retracted when changing to a different extruder.
Translated:The amount the filament will be retracted when changing to a different extruder.

English:No updates are currently available.
Translated:No updates are currently available.

English:Additional amount of filament that will be extruded after a retraction.
Translated:Additional amount of filament that will be extruded after a retraction.

English:The amount of extra extrusion that will occur when an extruder is selected.
Translated:The amount of extra extrusion that will occur when an extruder is selected.

English:The speed that the filament will be retracted (and re-extruded).
Translated:The speed that the filament will be retracted (and re-extruded).

English:The minimum feature size to consider from the model. Leave at 0 to use all the model detail.
Translated:The minimum feature size to consider from the model. Leave at 0 to use all the model detail.

English:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop.
Translated:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop.

English:The number of layers to draw the skirt.
Translated:The number of layers to draw the skirt.

English:The number of loops to draw around all the parts on the bed.
Translated:The number of loops to draw around all the parts on the bed.

English:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the movement speed will be reduced to try and make the layer take this long to print.
Translated:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the movement speed will be reduced to try and make the layer take this long to print.

English:Used for small perimeters (usually holes). This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters' speed.
Translated:Used for small perimeters (usually holes). This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters' speed.

English:The pattern used on the bottom and top layers of the print.
Translated:The pattern used on the bottom and top layers of the print.

English:Forces solid infill for any area less than this amount.
Translated:Forces solid infill for any area less than this amount.

English:Sets how often a layer will be forced to be solid infilled. Zero will result in normal infill throughout.
Translated:Sets how often a layer will be forced to be solid infilled. Zero will result in normal infill throughout.

English:The speed to print infill when completely solid. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:The speed to print infill when completely solid. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.

English:Force the print to have only one layer and gradually increase the extruder height during the print. Only one part can be printed at a time with this feature.
Translated:Force the print to have only one layer and gradually increase the extruder height during the print. Only one part can be printed at a time with this feature.

English:This is the amount to lower the temperature of an extruder that is not currently printing.
Translated:This is the amount to lower the temperature of an extruder that is not currently printing.

English:This gcode will be inserted into the output right after the temperature setting. If you have the commands to set temperature in this section they will not be generated outside of this section. You can also include values from other settings such as [first_layer_temperature].
Translated:This gcode will be inserted into the output right after the temperature setting. If you have the commands to set temperature in this section they will not be generated outside of this section. You can also include values from other settings such as [first_layer_temperature].

English:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is a concave point.
Translated:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is a concave point.

English:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is not an overhang.
Translated:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is not an overhang.

English:The starting angle of the supports.
Translated:The starting angle of the supports.

English:Create support where needed on internal features.
Translated:Create support where needed on internal features.

English:Generate support material everywhere not touching the bed for n layers, regardless of angle.
Translated:Generate support material everywhere not touching the bed for n layers, regardless of angle.

English:The index of the extruder to use for support material.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for support material.

English:The index of the extruder to use for support material interface layers.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for support material interface layers.

English:The number of layers to print between the supports and the part.
Translated:The number of layers to print between the supports and the part.

English:The space between lines of the interface layers (0 is solid).
Translated:The space between lines of the interface layers (0 is solid).

English:The pattern used while generating support material.
Translated:The pattern used while generating support material.

English:The space between the lines of he support material.
Translated:The space between the lines of he support material.

English:The speed to print support material structures.
Translated:The speed to print support material structures.

English:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support. Set to 0 to enable automatic settings.
Translated:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support. Set to 0 to enable automatic settings.

English:The distance the support material will be from the object in the x and y direction.
Translated:The distance the support material will be from the object in the x and y direction.

English:The distance the support material will be from the object in the z direction.
Translated:The distance the support material will be from the object in the z direction.

English:This turns on and off the generation of support material.
Translated:This turns on and off the generation of support material.

English:The temperature to set the extruder to after the first layer has been printed.
Translated:The temperature to set the extruder to after the first layer has been printed.

English:Detect when walls are too close together and need to be extruded as just one wall.
Translated:Detect when walls are too close together and need to be extruded as just one wall.

English:The number of CPU cores to use while doing slicing. Increasing this can slow down your machine.
Translated:The number of CPU cores to use while doing slicing. Increasing this can slow down your machine.

English:This gcode will be inserted after every tool change.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted after every tool change.

English:The speed to print the top infill. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:The speed to print the top infill. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.

English:How many layers will be solid filled on the top surfaces of the object.
Translated:How many layers will be solid filled on the top surfaces of the object.

English:Speed to move when not extruding material.
Translated:Speed to move when not extruding material.

English:Request the firmware to do retractions rather than specify the extruder movements directly.
Translated:Request the firmware to do retractions rather than specify the extruder movements directly.

English:Normally you will want to use absolute e distances. Only check this if you know your printer needs relative e distances.
Translated:Normally you will want to use absolute e distances. Only check this if you know your printer needs relative e distances.

English:This is to help reduce vibrations during printing. If your printer has a resonance frequency that is causing trouble you can set this to try and reduce printing at that frequency.
Translated:This is to help reduce vibrations during printing. If your printer has a resonance frequency that is causing trouble you can set this to try and reduce printing at that frequency.

English:This will cause the extruder to move while retracting to minimize blobs.
Translated:This will cause the extruder to move while retracting to minimize blobs.

English:This value will be added to all of the z positions of the created gcode.
Translated:This value will be added to all of the z positions of the created gcode.

English:Print
Translated:Print

English:Layers/Perimeters
Translated:Layers/Perimeters

English:Layer Height
Translated:Layer Height

English:Perimeters (minimum)
Translated:Perimeters (minimum)

English:Vertical Shells
Translated:Vertical Shells

English:Infill
Translated:Infill

English:Fill Density
Translated:Fill Density

English:Fill Pattern
Translated:Fill Pattern

English:Support Material
Translated:Support Material

English:Generate Support Material
Translated:Generate Support Material

English:Filament
Translated:Filament

English:Diameter
Translated:Diameter

English:Extrude First Layer
Translated:Extrude First Layer

English:Extruder Other Layers
Translated:Extruder Other Layers

English:Bed First Layer
Translated:Bed First Layer

English:Bed Other Layers
Translated:Bed Other Layers

English:Temperature (�C)
Translated:Temperature (�C)

English:Cooling
Translated:Cooling

English:Enable Auto Cooling
Translated:Enable Auto Cooling

English:Enable
Translated:Enable

English:Printer
Translated:Printer

English:General
Translated:General

English:Bed Size
Translated:Bed Size

English:Print Center
Translated:Print Center

English:Build Height
Translated:Build Height

English:Size and Coordinates
Translated:Size and Coordinates

English:Extruder 1
Translated:Extruder 1

English:Nozzle Diameter
Translated:Nozzle Diameter

English:Size
Translated:Size

English:Configuration
Translated:Configuration

English:EEProm Settings
Translated:EEProm Settings

English:CONFIGURE
Translated:CONFIGURE

English:Automatic Calibration
Translated:Automatic Calibration

English:ENABLE
Translated:ENABLE

English:DISABLE
Translated:DISABLE

English:Enable Automatic Print Leveling
Translated:Enable Automatic Print Leveling

English:Automatic Print Leveling (disabled)
Translated:Automatic Print Leveling (disabled)

English:Extruder Temperature
Translated:Extruder Temperature

English:View Manual Printer Controls and Slicing Settings
Translated:View Manual Printer Controls and Slicing Settings

English:View Queue and Library
Translated:View Queue and Library

English:Bed Temperature
Translated:Bed Temperature

English:This gcode will be inserted when the print is canceled.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted when the print is canceled.

English:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is paused.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is paused.

English:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is resumed.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is resumed.

English:Print Time
Translated:Print Time

English:Filament Length
Translated:Filament Length

English:Filament Volume
Translated:Filament Volume

English:Weight
Translated:Weight

English:Show Grid
Translated:Show Grid

English:Show Moves
Translated:Show Moves

English:Show Retractions
Translated:Show Retractions

English:Go
Translated:Go

English:start:
Translated:start:

English:end:
Translated:end:

English:There is a recommended update available.
Translated:There is a recommended update available.

English:Layer View
Translated:Layer View

English:Connect to Printer
Translated:Connect to Printer

English:Choose a 3D Printer Configuration
Translated:Choose a 3D Printer Configuration

English:Unavailable
Translated:Unavailable

English:Refresh
Translated:Refresh

English:Automatic Print Leveling (enabled)
Translated:Automatic Print Leveling (enabled)

English:Connecting
Translated:Connecting

English:Status: {0} - {1}
Translated:Status: {0} - {1}

English:edit
Translated:edit

English:remove
Translated:remove

English:Printer Name
Translated:Printer Name

English:(refresh)
Translated:(refresh)

English:Serial Port
Translated:Serial Port

English:Baud Rate
Translated:Baud Rate

English:Other
Translated:Other

English:Printer Make
Translated:Printer Make

English:Printer Model
Translated:Printer Model

English:Auto Connect
Translated:Auto Connect

English:Preparing To Print
Translated:Preparing To Print

English:Preparing to slice model
Translated:Preparing to slice model

English:Printing
Translated:Printing

English:Filter Output
Translated:Filter Output

English:Auto Uppercase
Translated:Auto Uppercase

English:Send
Translated:Send

English:MatterControl - Terminal
Translated:MatterControl - Terminal

English:First Layer Height
Translated:First Layer Height

English:Spiral Vase
Translated:Spiral Vase

English:Number of Solid Layers\non the Top:
Translated:Number of Solid Layers\non the Top:

English:Number of Solid Layers\non the Bottom:
Translated:Number of Solid Layers\non the Bottom:

English:Horizontal Shells
Translated:Horizontal Shells

English:Speed
Translated:Speed

English:Perimeters
Translated:Perimeters

English:Speed for Print Moves
Translated:Speed for Print Moves

English:Travel
Translated:Travel

English:Speed for non Print Moves
Translated:Speed for non Print Moves

English:First Layer Speed
Translated:First Layer Speed

English:Modifiers
Translated:Modifiers

English:Skirt and Brim
Translated:Skirt and Brim

English:Loops
Translated:Loops

English:Distance from Object
Translated:Distance from Object

English:Minimum Extrusion Length
Translated:Minimum Extrusion Length

English:Skirt
Translated:Skirt

English:Overhang Threshold
Translated:Overhang Threshold

English:Pattern Spacing
Translated:Pattern Spacing

English:X and Y Distance
Translated:X and Y Distance

English:Z Distance
Translated:Z Distance

English:Internal Support
Translated:Internal Support

English:Notes
Translated:Notes

English:Output Options
Translated:Output Options

English:Multiple Extruders
Translated:Multiple Extruders

English:Advanced
Translated:Advanced

English:Enable Extruder Lift
Translated:Enable Extruder Lift

English:Min Fan Speed
Translated:Min Fan Speed

English:Max Fan Speed
Translated:Max Fan Speed

English:Disable Fan For The First
Translated:Disable Fan For The First

English:Fan Speed
Translated:Fan Speed

English:Slow Down If Layer Print\nTime Is Below
Translated:Slow Down If Layer Print\nTime Is Below

English:Cooling Thresholds
Translated:Cooling Thresholds

English:Bed Shape
Translated:Bed Shape

English:Custom G-Code
Translated:Custom G-Code

English:Start G-Code
Translated:Start G-Code

English:End G-Code
Translated:End G-Code

English:Length
Translated:Length

English:Minimum Travel After\nRetraction
Translated:Minimum Travel After\nRetraction

English:Min Extrusion
Translated:Min Extrusion

English:Retraction
Translated:Retraction

English:Generate Extra Perimeters\nWhen Needed:
Translated:Generate Extra Perimeters\nWhen Needed:

English:Avoid Crossing Perimeters
Translated:Avoid Crossing Perimeters

English:Start At Concave Points
Translated:Start At Concave Points

English:Start At Non Overhang
Translated:Start At Non Overhang

English:Thin Walls
Translated:Thin Walls

English:Quality (slower slicing)
Translated:Quality (slower slicing)

English:Randomize Starting Points
Translated:Randomize Starting Points

English:External Perimeters First
Translated:External Perimeters First

English:Top/Bottom Fill Pattern
Translated:Top/Bottom Fill Pattern

English:Infill Every
Translated:Infill Every

English:Only Infill Where Needed
Translated:Only Infill Where Needed

English:Solid Infill Every
Translated:Solid Infill Every

English:Fill Angle
Translated:Fill Angle

English:Solid Infill Threshold Area
Translated:Solid Infill Threshold Area

English:Only Retract When\nCrossing Perimeters
Translated:Only Retract When\nCrossing Perimeters

English:Do Infill Before Perimeters
Translated:Do Infill Before Perimeters

English:Small Perimeters
Translated:Small Perimeters

English:External Perimeters
Translated:External Perimeters

English:Solid Infill
Translated:Solid Infill

English:Top Solid Infill
Translated:Top Solid Infill

English:Bridges
Translated:Bridges

English:Gap Fill
Translated:Gap Fill

English:Min Print Speed
Translated:Min Print Speed

English:Bridge
Translated:Bridge

English:First Layer
Translated:First Layer

English:Default
Translated:Default

English:Acceleration Control
Translated:Acceleration Control

English:Skirt Height
Translated:Skirt Height

English:Brim Width
Translated:Brim Width

English:Brim
Translated:Brim

English:Enforce Support For First
Translated:Enforce Support For First

English:Raft Layers
Translated:Raft Layers

English:Raft
Translated:Raft

English:Pattern
Translated:Pattern

English:Pattern Angle
Translated:Pattern Angle

English:Interface Layers
Translated:Interface Layers

English:Interface Pattern Spacing
Translated:Interface Pattern Spacing

English:Complete Individual Objects
Translated:Complete Individual Objects

English:Extruder Clearance Height
Translated:Extruder Clearance Height

English:Extruder Clearance Radius
Translated:Extruder Clearance Radius

English:Sequential Printing
Translated:Sequential Printing

English:Verbose G-Code
Translated:Verbose G-Code

English:Output File Name Format
Translated:Output File Name Format

English:Output File
Translated:Output File

English:Post-Processing Scripts
Translated:Post-Processing Scripts

English:Perimeter Extruder
Translated:Perimeter Extruder

English:Infill Extruder
Translated:Infill Extruder

English:Support Material Extruder
Translated:Support Material Extruder

English:Support Interface Extruder
Translated:Support Interface Extruder

English:Extruders
Translated:Extruders

English:Temp Lower Amount
Translated:Temp Lower Amount

English:Ooze Prevention
Translated:Ooze Prevention

English:Default Extrusion Width
Translated:Default Extrusion Width

English:Extrusion Width
Translated:Extrusion Width

English:Bridge Flow Ratio
Translated:Bridge Flow Ratio

English:Flow
Translated:Flow

English:Threads
Translated:Threads

English:Resolution
Translated:Resolution

English:Extrusion Axis
Translated:Extrusion Axis

English:Optimize Overhangs
Translated:Optimize Overhangs

English:Keep Fan Always On
Translated:Keep Fan Always On

English:Bridging Fan Speed
Translated:Bridging Fan Speed

English:Enable Fan If Layer\nPrint Time Is Below
Translated:Enable Fan If Layer\nPrint Time Is Below

English:Z Offset
Translated:Z Offset

English:G-Code Flavor
Translated:G-Code Flavor

English:Use Relative E Distances
Translated:Use Relative E Distances

English:Use Arcs
Translated:Use Arcs

English:Use G0
Translated:Use G0

English:Firmware
Translated:Firmware

English:Use Firmware Retraction
Translated:Use Firmware Retraction

English:Vibration Limit
Translated:Vibration Limit

English:Layer Change G-Code
Translated:Layer Change G-Code

English:Tool Change G-Code
Translated:Tool Change G-Code

English:Pause G-Code
Translated:Pause G-Code

English:Resume G-Code
Translated:Resume G-Code

English:Cancel G-Code
Translated:Cancel G-Code

English:Extruder Offset
Translated:Extruder Offset

English:Position (for multi-extrude printers)
Translated:Position (for multi-extrude printers)

English:Change Tool
Translated:Change Tool

English:Z Lift
Translated:Z Lift

English:Extra Length On Restart
Translated:Extra Length On Restart

English:Retract on Layer Change
Translated:Retract on Layer Change

English:Wipe Before Retract
Translated:Wipe Before Retract

English:Retraction When Tool is Disabled (for multi-extruders)
Translated:Retraction When Tool is Disabled (for multi-extruders)

English:Paused
Translated:Paused

English:Printing Paused
Translated:Printing Paused

English:Ok
Translated:Ok

English:Finished Print
Translated:Finished Print

English:Done Printing
Translated:Done Printing

English:Save As
Translated:Save As

English:Installed Plugins
Translated:Installed Plugins

English:Select a Design Tool
Translated:Select a Design Tool
English:Temperature (C)
Translated:Temperature (C)

English:Language Settings
Translated:Language Settings

English:Select Model
Translated:Select Model

English:Theme Settings
Translated:Theme Settings

English:New updates are ready to install.
Translated:New updates are ready to install.

English:Select Language
Translated:Select Language

English:File not found on disk.
Translated:File not found on disk.

English:Not connected. Press 'Connect' to enable printing.
Translated:Not connected. Press 'Connect' to enable printing.

English:Loading Parts
Translated:Loading Parts

English:CONNECT
Translated:CONNECT

English:DISCONNECT
Translated:DISCONNECT

English:OPTIONS
Translated:OPTIONS

English:QUEUE
Translated:QUEUE

English:STATUS
Translated:STATUS

English:CONTROLS
Translated:CONTROLS

English:SLICE SETTINGS
Translated:SLICE SETTINGS

English:CONFIGURATION
Translated:CONFIGURATION

English:MODEL
Translated:MODEL

English:LAYER
Translated:LAYER

English:DISPLAY
Translated:DISPLAY

English:PRINT TIME
Translated:PRINT TIME

English:FILAMENT LENGTH
Translated:FILAMENT LENGTH

English:FILAMENT VOLUME
Translated:FILAMENT VOLUME

English:WEIGHT
Translated:WEIGHT

English:EST. WEIGHT
Translated:EST. WEIGHT

English:Saving
Translated:Saving

English:Export File
Translated:Export File

English:File export options
Translated:File export options

English:Export as
Translated:Export as

English:Show file in folder after save
Translated:Show file in folder after save

English:HISTORY
Translated:HISTORY

English:LIBRARY
Translated:LIBRARY

English:Developed By: 
Translated:Developed By: 

English: to help support MatterControl.
Translated: to help support MatterControl.

English:ABOUT
Translated:ABOUT

English:Oops! Could not find this file
Translated:Oops! Could not find this file

English:Would you like to remove it from the queue
Translated:Would you like to remove it from the queue

English:Item not Found
Translated:Item not Found

English:Yes
Translated:Yes

English:No
Translated:No

English:History
Translated:History

English:Slicing Error. Please review your slice settings.
Translated:Slicing Error. Please review your slice settings.

English:Quality
Translated:Quality

English:First Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.
Translated:First Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.

English:This will cause the print to be centered on the bed. Disable this if you know your models have been created where you want them to print.
Translated:This will cause the print to be centered on the bed. Disable this if you know your models have been created where you want them to print.

English:Center On Bed
Translated:Center On Bed

English:Center Print
Translated:Center Print

English:Note
Translated:Note

English:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile.
Translated:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile.

English:The amount to remove from the bottom of the model
Translated:The amount to remove from the bottom of the model

English:The amount the infill edge will push into the preimiter. Helps ensure the infill is connected to the edge.
Translated:The amount the infill edge will push into the preimiter. Helps ensure the infill is connected to the edge.

English:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop. Make this 0 to create an anchor for the part to the bed.
Translated:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop. Make this 0 to create an anchor for the part to the bed.

English:Bottom Clip
Translated:Bottom Clip

English:Infill Overlap
Translated:Infill Overlap

English:Inside Perimeters
Translated:Inside Perimeters

English:Outside Perimeter
Translated:Outside Perimeter

English:Sets the default movement speed while printing inside perimeters.
Translated:Sets the default movement speed while printing inside perimeters.

English:The type of support to create for surfaces that need it.
Translated:The type of support to create for surfaces that need it.

English:Support Type
Translated:Support Type

English:Top & Bottom Layers
Translated:Top & Bottom Layers

English:
Translated:

English:gcode_output_type
Translated:gcode_output_type

English:Starting Angle
Translated:Starting Angle

English:The space between the lines of the support material.
Translated:The space between the lines of the support material.

English:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support.
Translated:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support.

English:Add Printer
Translated:Add Printer

English:If greater than 0, this is the distance away from parts to create a parimeter to wipe when entering.
Translated:If greater than 0, this is the distance away from parts to create a parimeter to wipe when entering.

English:Wipe Shield Dist
Translated:Wipe Shield Dist

English:Wipe Shield
Translated:Wipe Shield

English:  Remove All
Translated:  Remove All

English:The number of layers to skip in z. The gap between the support and the model.
Translated:The number of layers to skip in z. The gap between the support and the model.

English:Z Gap
Translated:Z Gap

English:Print Again
Translated:Print Again

English:Turns on and off the creation of a raft which can help parts adhear to the bed.
Translated:Turns on and off the creation of a raft which can help parts adhear to the bed.

English:Enable Raft
Translated:Enable Raft

English:Create Raft
Translated:Create Raft

English:The amount of overhangs to support. 0 is no support 100 is support every overhang regardless of angle.
Translated:The amount of overhangs to support. 0 is no support 100 is support every overhang regardless of angle.

English:Overhang Percent
Translated:Overhang Percent

English:support_material_overhang_percent
Translated:support_material_overhang_percent

English:Device
Translated:Device

English:Material
Translated:Material

English:Item
Translated:Item

English:Wipe Shield Distance
Translated:Wipe Shield Distance

English: Remove All
Translated: Remove All

English:Slice Presets Editor
Translated:Slice Presets Editor

English:Attempting to Connect
Translated:Attempting to Connect

English:Making Copy
Translated:Making Copy

English:Arranging Parts
Translated:Arranging Parts

English:Only Show Completed
Translated:Only Show Completed

English:Show Timestamp
Translated:Show Timestamp

English:Render Type
Translated:Render Type

English:Shaded
Translated:Shaded

English:Outlines
Translated:Outlines

English:Polygons
Translated:Polygons

English:New updates may be available.
Translated:New updates may be available.

English:Unable to communicate with printer.
Translated:Unable to communicate with printer.

English:Item selected. Press 'Start' to begin your print.
Translated:Item selected. Press 'Start' to begin your print.

English:Disconnecting
Translated:Disconnecting

English:Leveling Settings
Translated:Leveling Settings

English:Movement Speeds Presets
Translated:Movement Speeds Presets

English:Axis
Translated:Axis

English:Sampled Positions
Translated:Sampled Positions

English:Position
Translated:Position

English:Do not show this again
Translated:Do not show this again

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nGCode files tell your printer exactly what to do.  They are not modified by SliceSettings and my not be appropriate for your specific printer configuration.\n\nOnly print from GCode files if you know they mach your current printer and configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nGCode files tell your printer exactly what to do.  They are not modified by SliceSettings and my not be appropriate for your specific printer configuration.\n\nOnly print from GCode files if you know they mach your current printer and configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?

English:Cannot find\n'{0}'.\nWould you like to remove it from the queue?
Translated:Cannot find\n'{0}'.\nWould you like to remove it from the queue?

English:Item not found
Translated:Item not found

English:Welcome to the print leveling wizard. Here is a quick overview on what we are going to do.
Translated:Welcome to the print leveling wizard. Here is a quick overview on what we are going to do.

English:'Home' the printer
Translated:'Home' the printer

English:Sample the bed at three points
Translated:Sample the bed at three points

English:Turn auto leveling on
Translated:Turn auto leveling on

English:You should be done in about 3 minutes.
Translated:You should be done in about 3 minutes.

English:Click 'Next' to continue.
Translated:Click 'Next' to continue.

English:The printer should now be 'homing'. Once it is finished homing we will move it to the first point to sample.\n\nTo complete the next few steps you will need
Translated:The printer should now be 'homing'. Once it is finished homing we will move it to the first point to sample.\n\nTo complete the next few steps you will need

English:A standard sheet of paper
Translated:A standard sheet of paper

English:We will use this paper to measure the distance between the extruder and the bed.\n\nClick 'Next' to continue.
Translated:We will use this paper to measure the distance between the extruder and the bed.\n\nClick 'Next' to continue.

English:Congratulations!\n\nAuto Print Leveling is now configured and enabled.
Translated:Congratulations!\n\nAuto Print Leveling is now configured and enabled.

English:Remove the paper
Translated:Remove the paper

English:If in the future you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can uncheck the 'Enabled' button found in 'Advanced Settings'->'Printer Controls'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:If in the future you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can uncheck the 'Enabled' button found in 'Advanced Settings'->'Printer Controls'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.

English:Step
Translated:Step

English:of
Translated:of

English:Print Leveling Wizard
Translated:Print Leveling Wizard

English:Back
Translated:Back

English:Next
Translated:Next

English:Low Precision
Translated:Low Precision

English:Using the [Z] controls on this screen, we will now take a coarse measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:Using the [Z] controls on this screen, we will now take a coarse measurement of the extruder height at this position.

English:Place the paper under the extruder
Translated:Place the paper under the extruder

English:Using the above contols
Translated:Using the above contols

English:Press [Z-] until there is resistance to moving the paper
Translated:Press [Z-] until there is resistance to moving the paper

English:Press [Z+] once to release the paper
Translated:Press [Z+] once to release the paper

English:Finally click 'Next' to continue.
Translated:Finally click 'Next' to continue.

English:This part of your bed is too low for the extruder to reach it. You need to raise your bed, or lower your limit, for print leveling to work.
Translated:This part of your bed is too low for the extruder to reach it. You need to raise your bed, or lower your limit, for print leveling to work.

English:Waring Moving Too Low
Translated:Waring Moving Too Low

English:Medium Precision
Translated:Medium Precision

English:We will now refine our measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:We will now refine our measurement of the extruder height at this position.

English:High Precision
Translated:High Precision

English:We will now finalize our measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:We will now finalize our measurement of the extruder height at this position.

English:Press [Z-] one click PAST the first hint of resistance
Translated:Press [Z-] one click PAST the first hint of resistance

English:Save Parts Sheet
Translated:Save Parts Sheet

English:MatterContol
Translated:MatterContol

English:Saving to Parts Sheet
Translated:Saving to Parts Sheet

English:Stop trying to connect to the printer
Translated:Stop trying to connect to the printer

English:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer
Translated:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer

English:About                                             
Translated:About                                             

English:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging.Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.
Translated:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging.Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.

English:The default temperature to set the bed to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:The default temperature to set the bed to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.

English:The default temperature to set the extruder to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer.
Translated:The default temperature to set the extruder to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer.

English:Macro Editor
Translated:Makro Editörü

English:Macro Presets
Translated:Macro Presets

English:Edit Macro
Translated:Makroyu düzenle

English:Macro Name
Translated:Makro Adı

English:Give your macro a name
Translated:Makronuza bir isim verin

English:Macro Commands
Translated:Makro Komutları

English:This should be in 'Gcode'
Translated:Bu 'Gcode'içersinde olmalı

English:3D Printer Setup
Translated:3D Yazıcı Kurulum

English:Give your printer a name.
Translated:Yazıcınıza bir isim verin.

English:Select Make
Translated: Make Seçin

English:Select the printer manufacturer
Translated:Yazıcı Üreticisini Seçin

English:Select the printer model
Translated:Yazıcı Modelini Seçin

English:Save & Continue
Translated:Kaydet & Devam et

English:MatterControl will now attempt to auto-detect printer.
Translated:MatterControl will now attempt to auto-detect printer.

English:Disconnect printer
Translated:Disconnect printer

English:if currently connected
Translated:if currently connected

English:Press
Translated:Press

English:Continue
Translated:Devam Et

English:Manual Configuration
Translated:Manual Configuration

English:Setup Manual Configuration
Translated:Setup Manual Configuration

English:or
Translated:or

English:Skip Printer Connection
Translated:Skip Printer Connection

English:You can either
Translated:You can either

English:You can also
Translated:You can also

English:Extruder Temperature Settings
Translated:Extruder Temperature Settings

English:Temperature Shortcut Presets
Translated:Temperature Shortcut Presets

English:Label
Translated:Label

English:Preset
Translated:Preset

English:Max Temp.
Translated:Max Sıcaklık.

English:Bed Temperature Settings
Translated:Bed Temperature Settings

English:Movement Speeds
Translated:Movement Speeds

English:Extruder
Translated:Ekstruder

English:Power on and connect printer
Translated:Power on and connect printer

English:Attempting to connect
Translated:Attempting to connect

English:Connection succeeded
Translated:Başarıyla Bağlanıldı

English:You cannot move any lower. This position on your bed is too low for the extruder to reach. You need to raise your bed, or adjust your limits to allow the extruder to go lower.
Translated:You cannot move any lower. This position on your bed is too low for the extruder to reach. You need to raise your bed, or adjust your limits to allow the extruder to go lower.

English:Edit Preset
Translated:Ayarları Düzenle

English:Slice-Engine
Translated:Dilimleme Motoru

English:Status: Completed
Translated:Status: Tamamlandı

English:Unlock
Translated:Kilidi aç

English:Show Terminal
Translated:Show Terminal

English:Configure
Translated:Configure

English:Disable
Translated:Disable

English:Est. Weight
Translated:Tah.Ağırlık

English:Downloading updates...
Translated:Güncellemeler indiriliyor...

English:Duplicate
Translated:Duplicate

English:End
Translated:Son

English:The type of support to create inside of parts.
Translated:The type of support to create inside of parts.

English:Infill Type
Translated:Dolgu Şekli

English:Release Options
Translated:Release Options

English:No items to select. Press 'Add' to select a file to print.
Translated:No items to select. Press 'Add' to select a file to print.

English:Unknown
Translated:Bilinmeyen

English:Press 'Add' to select an item.
Translated:Öğe eklemek için "ekle" ye basınız

English:Shop
Translated:Market

English:Slicing Error
Translated:Dilimleme Hatası

English:Ready to Print
Translated:Yazdırmaya Hazır

English:File Not Found\n'{0}'
Translated:File Not Found\n'{0}'

English:Slicing Error.\nPlease review your slice settings.
Translated:Slicing Error.\nPlease review your slice settings.

English:Special thanks to:
Translated:Special thanks to:

English:Alessandro Ranellucci for 
Translated:Alessandro Ranellucci for 

English:David Braam and Ultimaker BV for 
Translated:David Braam and Ultimaker BV for 

English:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile
Translated:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile

English:MatterControl: Submit an Issue
Translated:MatterControl: Submit an Issue

English:Submit
Translated:Submit

English:How can we help?
Translated:Nasıl Yardımcı Olabiliriz?

English:Submitting your information...
Translated:Submitting your information...

English:Question*
Translated:Soru*

English:Briefly describe your question
Translated:Briefly describe your question

English:Details*
Translated:Detaylar*

English:Fill in the details here
Translated:Detayları doldurunuz.

English:Your Email Address*
Translated:E-mail Adresiniz*

English:Your Name*
Translated:İsminiz*

English:Version 
Translated:Versiyon

English:Developed by:
Translated:Developed by:

English:Send FeedBack
Translated:Geri Bildirim Gönder

English:Build: 
Translated:Build: 

English:Update Feed
Translated:Update Feed

English:File
Translated:Dosya

English:Import File
Translated:Dosya Al

English:Exit
Translated:Çıkış

English:Help
Translated:Yardım

English:Getting Started
Translated:Başlarken

English:View Help
Translated:Yardımı Göster

English:Manually Configure Connection
Translated:Bağlantı ayarlarını manuel yap

English:Skip Connection Setup
Translated:Bağlantı Kurulumunu Atla

English:Currently available serial ports.
Translated:Currently available serial ports.

English:What's this?
Translated:Bu ne demek?

English:The 'Serial Port' identifies which connected device is\nyour printer. Changing which usb plug you use may\nchange the associated serial port.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain, plug-in in your printer and hit\nrefresh. The new port that appears should be your\nprinter.
Translated:The 'Serial Port' identifies which connected device is\nyour printer. Changing which usb plug you use may\nchange the associated serial port.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain, plug-in in your printer and hit\nrefresh. The new port that appears should be your\nprinter.

English:Connection succeeded!
Translated:Bağlanma Başarılı!

English:Oops! Unable to install update.
Translated:Oops! Unable to install update.

English:Motor de Capas
Translated:Motor de Capas

English:Your application is up-to-date.
Translated:Your application is up-to-date.

English:Install Communication Driver
Translated:Install Communication Driver

English:This printer requires a driver for communication.
Translated:This printer requires a driver for communication.

English:Driver located. Would you like to install?
Translated:Driver located. Would you like to install?

English:Install Driver
Translated:Sürücü Yükle

English:Apply
Translated:Uygula

English:Buy Materials
Translated:Buy Materials

English:Select an STL file
Translated:Select an STL file

English:Add File
Translated:Add File

English:Time
Translated:Time

English:Press 'Connect' to select a printer.
Translated:Press 'Connect' to select a printer.

English:Marlin Firmware EEPROM Settings
Translated:Marlin Firmware EEPROM Settings

English:Re-Load Default Settings
Translated:Re-Load Default Settings

English:Set Default To Factory Settings
Translated:Set Default To Factory Settings

English:Steps per mm:
Translated:Steps per mm:

English:Maximum feedrates [mm/s]:
Translated:Maximum feedrates [mm/s]:

English:Maximum Acceleration [mm/s²]:
Translated:Maximum Acceleration [mm/s²]:

English:Acceleration:
Translated:Acceleration:

English:Retract Acceleration:
Translated:Retract Acceleration:

English:PID settings:
Translated:PID settings:

English:Homing Offset:
Translated:Homing Offset:

English:Min feedrate [mm/s]:
Translated:Min feedrate [mm/s]:

English:Min travel feedrate [mm/s]:
Translated:Min travel feedrate [mm/s]:

English:Minimum segment time [ms]:
Translated:Minimum segment time [ms]:

English:Maximum X-Y jerk [mm/s]:
Translated:Maximum X-Y jerk [mm/s]:

English:Maximum Z jerk [mm/s]:
Translated:Maximum Z jerk [mm/s]:

English:Make Settings Active
Translated:Make Settings Active

English:Make Settings Active\nAnd Save To Default
Translated:Make Settings Active\nAnd Save To Default

English:Design Add-ons
Translated:Design Add-ons

English:Lock Ratio
Translated:Oranı Kitle

English:Retrieving download info...
Translated:Retrieving download info...

English:G-Code Output
Translated:G-Code Output

English:The extra distance the raft will extend around the part.
Translated:The extra distance the raft will extend around the part.

English:The percent of the 'Nozzle Diameter' that is the gap between the raft and the first layer. A smaller percent will make the part stick more. A larger percent will make it stick less.
Translated:The percent of the 'Nozzle Diameter' that is the gap between the raft and the first layer. A smaller percent will make the part stick more. A larger percent will make it stick less.

English:Distance
Translated:Mesafe

English:Gap Percent
Translated:Boşluk Yüzdesi

English:Try to connect mesh edges when the actual mesh data is not all the way connected.
Translated:Try to connect mesh edges when the actual mesh data is not all the way connected.

English:Sometime a mesh will not have closed a perimeters. When this is checked these non-closed perimeters while be closed.
Translated:Sometime a mesh will not have closed a perimeters. When this is checked these non-closed perimeters while be closed.

English:Reverse the orientation of overlaps. This can make some unintended holes go away.
Translated:Reverse the orientation of overlaps. This can make some unintended holes go away.

English:Make all overlap areas into one big area. This can make some unintended holes go away..
Translated:Make all overlap areas into one big area. This can make some unintended holes go away..

English:Repair
Translated:Tamir Et

English:Connect Bad Edges
Translated:Connect Bad Edges

English:Close Polygons
Translated:Close Polygons

English:Reverse Orientation
Translated:Reverse Orientation

English:Merge All
Translated:Merge All

English:Overlaps
Translated:Overlaps

English:The distance between the first layer and the top of the raft. A good value is typically about 1/2 your extrusion diameter. So, between 0.0 and .2 for a .4 nozzle.
Translated:The distance between the first layer and the top of the raft. A good value is typically about 1/2 your extrusion diameter. So, between 0.0 and .2 for a .4 nozzle.

English:Air Gap
Translated:Air Gap

English:Outline Distance
Translated:Outline Distance

English:Distance Around Object
Translated:Distance Around Object

English:Minimum Travel\nRequiring Retraction
Translated:Minimum Travel\nRequiring Retraction

English:Show Printing
Translated:Show Printing

English:Show Current
Translated:Show Current

English:Printer Sync
Translated:Printer Sync

English:Sync To Print
Translated:Sync To Print

English:Layers
Translated:Katmanlar

English:Show 3D
Translated:3D Göster

English:Uh-oh! Could not connect to printer.
Translated:Uh-oh! Could not connect to printer.

English:Installing
Translated:Yükleniyor

English:Initial Printer Setup
Translated:Initial Printer Setup

English:Homing The Printer
Translated:Homing The Printer

English:If in the future you need to re-calibrate your printer, or you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can find the print leveling controls in 'Advanced Settings'->'Configuration'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:If in the future you need to re-calibrate your printer, or you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can find the print leveling controls in 'Advanced Settings'->'Configuration'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.

English:Print Leveling Overview
Translated:Print Leveling Overview

English:Note: Be sure the tip of the extrude is clean.
Translated:Note: Be sure the tip of the extrude is clean.

English:Title Stuff
Translated:Title Stuff

English:Oops! You cannot exit while a print is active.
Translated:Oops! You cannot exit while a print is active.

English:Unable to Exit
Translated:Unable to Exit

English:You are currently saving a parts sheet, are you sure you want to exit?
Translated:You are currently saving a parts sheet, are you sure you want to exit?

English:Confirm Exit
Translated:Çıkışı onayla

English:Disconnect and cancel the current print?
Translated:Disconnect and cancel the current print?

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the current print.\n\nDo you want to disconnect?
Translated:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the current print.\n\nDo you want to disconnect?

English:Note: Slice Settings are applied before the print actually starts. Changes while printing will not effect the active print.
Translated:Note: Slice Settings are applied before the print actually starts. Changes while printing will not effect the active print.

English:The extruder is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting extruder temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}
Translated:The extruder is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting extruder temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}

English:Waiting For Extruder To Heat
Translated:Waiting For Extruder To Heat

English:The bed is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting bed temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}
Translated:The bed is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting bed temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}

English:Waiting For Bed To Heat
Translated:Waiting For Bed To Heat

English:Cancel the current print?
Translated:Mevcut yazma işlemini iptal et?

English:Cancel Print?
Translated:Yazmayı İptal Et?

English:There is a recommended update avalible for MatterControl. Would you like to download it now?
Translated:There is a recommended update avalible for MatterControl. Would you like to download it now?

English:Recommended Update Available
Translated:Güncellemeler Mevcut

English:Download Now
Translated:Şimdi İndir

English:Remind Me Later
Translated:Sonra Hatırlat

English:Oops! There is no eeprom mapping for your printer's firmware.
Translated:Oops! There is no eeprom mapping for your printer's firmware.

English:Warning no eeprom mapping
Translated:Warning no eeprom mapping

English:Sample the bed at two points
Translated:Sample the bed at two points

English:You should be done in about 2 minutes.
Translated:You should be done in about 2 minutes.

English:Alert
Translated:Alert

English:Input Required
Translated:Input Required

English:Apply leveling to gcode during export
Translated:Apply leveling to gcode during export

English:File export options:
Translated:File export options:

English:Report a Bug
Translated:Hata Bildir

English:About MatterControl
Translated:About MatterControl

English:Oops! Printer could not be detected 
Translated:Oops! Printer could not be detected 

English: Load Files
Translated: Dosya Yükle

English: Eject SD Card
Translated: Sd Kartı Çıkart

English:Show Voxels
Translated:Show Voxels

English:Show Mesh
Translated:Show Mesh

English:Do Subtract
Translated:Do Subtract

English:Specify if your printer has a fan.
Translated:Specify if your printer has a fan.

English:Specify if your printer has a heated bed.
Translated:Specify if your printer has a heated bed.

English:Specify if your printer has the ability to plug in an SD card.
Translated:Specify if your printer has the ability to plug in an SD card.

English:Has Fan
Translated:Fan Var

English:Has Heated Bed
Translated:Isıtmalı Tabla Var

English:Has SD Card Reader
Translated:Sd Kart Okuyucusu Var

English:Cloud Services
Translated:Bulut Hizmetleri

English:Cloud Monitoring (disabled)
Translated:Cloud Monitoring (disabled)

English:Cloud Monitoring (enabled)
Translated:Cloud Monitoring (enabled)

English:First Layer Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.
Translated:First Layer Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.

English:Export to SD Card
Translated:SD Karta Ver

English:Notification Settings
Translated:Uyarı Ayarları

English:After a Print is Finished:
Translated:Yazma işlemi bittikten sonra:

English:Saving your settings...
Translated:Ayarlarınız Kaydediliyor...

English:Send an SMS notification
Translated:SMS uyarısı gönder

English:Experimental
Translated:Experimental

English:Have MatterControl send you a text message after your print is finished
Translated:Yazma işlemi bittikten sonra SMS gönder

English:Your Phone Number*
Translated:Telefon numaranız*

English:A U.S. or Canadian mobile phone number
Translated:A U.S.A ve Kanada Cep telefonları

English:Send an email notification
Translated:E-mail uyarısı gönder

English:Have MatterControl send you an email message after your print is finished
Translated:Yazma işleminiz bittiğinde e-mail gönder

English:A valid email address
Translated:Geçerli bir mail adresi giriniz

English:Play a Sound
Translated:Sesli Uyarı Ver

English:Play a sound after your print is finished
Translated:Yazma işlemi bittiğinde sesli uyarı ver

English:Printing From SD Card
Translated:Printing From SD Card

English:Would you also like to remove this file from the Printer's SD Card?
Translated:Would you also like to remove this file from the Printer's SD Card?

English:Export to Printer SD Card
Translated:Yazıcı Sd Kart'ına Ver

English:Preparing To Send To SD Card
Translated:Sd Kart'a göndermeye hazırlanıyor.

English:Sending To SD Card
Translated:Sd Kart'a Gönder

English:Exporting to Folder
Translated:Klasöre Ver

English:Warning GCode file
Translated:Warning GCode file

English:Release Notes
Translated:Release Notes

English:More Info
Translated:Daha Fazla

English:Go To Status
Translated:Duruma Git

English:View Status
Translated:Durumu Görüntüle

English:Description
Translated:Açıklama

English:Value
Translated:Value

English:Save To EEPROM
Translated:Save To EEPROM

English:Firmware EEPROM Settings
Translated:Firmware EEPROM Settings

English:Save to EEPROM
Translated:Save to EEPROM

English:Select the baud rate.
Translated:Select the baud rate.

English:The term 'Baud Rate' roughly means the speed at which\ndata is transmitted.  Baud rates may differ from printer to\nprinter. Refer to your printer manual for more info.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain - try 250000.
Translated:The term 'Baud Rate' roughly means the speed at which\ndata is transmitted.  Baud rates may differ from printer to\nprinter. Refer to your printer manual for more info.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain - try 250000.

English:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a retraction can occur.
Translated:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a retraction can occur.

English:Support Options
Translated:Destek Seçenekleri

English:If this is checked support will be allowed starting on top of internal surfaces. If it is not checked support will only be created starting at the bed.
Translated:If this is checked support will be allowed starting on top of internal surfaces. If it is not checked support will only be created starting at the bed.

English:Support Everywhere
Translated:Heryere Destek At

English:The angle the support infill will be drawn.
Translated:The angle the support infill will be drawn.

English:Infill Angle
Translated:Doldurma Açısı

English:Grid
Translated:Kare

English:Moves
Translated:Hareketler

English:Retractions
Translated:Retractions

English:Speeds
Translated:Hız

English:Extrusion
Translated:Ekstrüzyon

English:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on 
Translated:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on 

English:Dilimleme Motoru
Translated:Dilimleme Motoru

