English:Connect
Translated:连接

English:Disconnect
Translated:断开

English:Status
Translated:状态

English:Connected
Translated:连接的

English:Not Connected
Translated:未连接

English:Select Printer
Translated:选择打印机

English:Options
Translated:选项

English:Next Print
Translated:下一页打印

English:Add
Translated:加

English:Add a file to be printed
Translated:添加要打印的文件

English:Start
Translated:开始

English:Begin printing the selected item.
Translated:开始打印所选项目。

English:Skip
Translated:跳跃

English:Skip the current item and move to the next in queue
Translated:跳过当前项目并移动到队列中的下一个

English:Remove
Translated:去掉

English:Remove current item from queue
Translated:从队列中删除当前项目

English:Pause
Translated:暂停

English:Pause the current print
Translated:暂停当前​​打印

English:Cancel Connect
Translated:取消连接

English:Stop trying to connect to the printer.
Translated:停止尝试连接到打印机。

English:Cancel
Translated:取消

English:Stop the current print
Translated:停止当前打印

English:Resume
Translated:恢复

English:Resume the current print
Translated:恢复当前打印

English:Reprint
Translated:重印

English:Print current item again
Translated:再次打印当前项目

English:Done
Translated:完成

English:Move to next print in queue
Translated:移动到队列中的下一个打印

English:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer.
Translated:未选择打印机按“连接”选择打印机。

English:Press 'Add' to choose an item to print
Translated:按“添加”选择要打印的项目

English:No items in the print queue
Translated:打印队列中没有任何项目

English:Queued to Print
Translated:排队打印

English:View
Translated:视图

English:Copy
Translated:复制

English:Add to Queue
Translated:添加到队列

English:Export
Translated:出口

English:Est. Print Time
Translated:美东时间。打印时间

English:Calculating...
Translated:计算...

English:complete
Translated:完成

English:Remove All
Translated:移除所有

English:Queue Options
Translated:队列选项

English: Import from Zip
Translated: 从Zip导入

English: Export to Zip
Translated: 导出到Zip

English: Export to Folder
Translated: 导出到文件夹

English:Extra
Translated:额外

English: Create Part Sheet
Translated: 创建零件表

English:Search
Translated:搜索

English:Import
Translated:进口

English:Create
Translated:创建

English:Check for Update
Translated:检查更新

English:Download Update
Translated:下载更新

English:Install Update
Translated:安装更新

English:There are updates available.
Translated:有更新可用。

English:Checking for updates...
Translated:查询更新...

English:MatterControl
Translated:物质控制

English:Version {0}
Translated:版本{0}

English:Developed by MatterHackers
Translated:由MatterHackers开发

English:Please consider 
Translated:请考虑

English:donating
Translated:捐赠

English: to help support and improve MatterControl.
Translated: 帮助支持和改进MatterControl。

English:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on 
Translated:特别感谢Alessandro Ranellucci对他的不可思议的工作

English:Slic3r
Translated:Slic3r

English:and to David Braam and Ultimaker BV, for the amazing 
Translated:和David Braam和Ultimaker BV，令人惊叹

English:CuraEngine
Translated:CuraEngine

English:Send Feedback
Translated:发送反馈

English:www.matterhackers.com
Translated:www.matterhackers.com

English:Copyright © 2014 MatterHackers, Inc.
Translated:版权所有©2014 MatterHackers，Inc.

English:Build: {0} | 
Translated:构建：{0} |

English:Clear Cache
Translated:清除缓存

English:Queue
Translated:队列

English:Rotate
Translated:旋转

English:Scale
Translated:规模

English:Mirror
Translated:镜子

English:Display
Translated:显示

English:Show Print Bed
Translated:显示打印床

English:Show Print Area
Translated:显示打印区域

English:Show Wireframe
Translated:显示线框

English:Auto-Arrange
Translated:自动排列

English:Save
Translated:保存

English:Degrees
Translated:学位

English:Align to Bed
Translated:对齐床

English:Ratio
Translated:比

English:Conversions
Translated:转换

English:reset
Translated:重启

English:Apply Scale
Translated:申请量表

English:Finding Parts
Translated:寻找零件

English:Edit
Translated:编辑

English:Delete
Translated:删除

English:Close
Translated:关

English:Generate
Translated:生成

English:No GCode Available...
Translated:没有GCode可用...

English:Loading GCode...
Translated:载入GCode ...

English:Press 'generate' to view layers
Translated:按'生成'查看图层

English:Model
Translated:模型

English:Layer
Translated:层

English:Library
Translated:图书馆

English:About
Translated:关于

English:Advanced\nControls
Translated:高级\ n控件

English:Print\nQueue
Translated:打印\ n队列

English:Actual
Translated:实际

English:Target
Translated:目标

English:Presets
Translated:预设

English:Movement Controls
Translated:运动控制

English:ALL
Translated:所有

English:UNLOCK
Translated:开锁

English:Retract
Translated:撤回

English:Extrude
Translated:拉伸

English:Communications
Translated:通讯

English:SHOW TERMINAL
Translated:显示终端

English:Fan Controls
Translated:风扇控制

English:Fan Speed:
Translated:风扇转速：

English:Macros
Translated:宏

English:No macros are currently setup for this printer.
Translated:当前没有为此打印机设置宏。

English:Tuning Adjustment (while printing)
Translated:调整调整（打印时）

English:Speed Multiplier
Translated:速度乘数

English:Set
Translated:组

English:Extrusion Multiplier
Translated:挤压乘数

English:Controls
Translated:控制

English:Slice Settings
Translated:切片设置

English:Show Help
Translated:显示帮助

English:Show All Settings
Translated:显示所有设置

English:Active Settings
Translated:活动设置

English:unsaved changes
Translated:未保存的更改

English:Revert
Translated:还原

English:Options   
Translated:选项

English:Slice Engine
Translated:切片引擎

English:No Printer Selected
Translated:未选择打印机

English:No printer is currently selected. Select printer to edit slice settings.
Translated:目前没有打印机被选中。选择打印机来编辑切片设置。

English:Attempts to minimize the number of perimeter crossing. This can help with oozing or strings.
Translated:尝试尽量减少周界数量。这可以帮助渗透或字符串。

English:The shape of the physical print bed.
Translated:物理打印床的形状。

English:The size of the print bed.
Translated:打印床的大小。

English:The temperature to set the bed to after the first layer has been printed. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:在第一层之后将床设置为的温度已被打印。设置为0以消除床温命令。

English:How many layers will be solid filled on the bottom surfaces of the object.
Translated:实体填充物体的底部表面有多少层。

English:Acceleration to during bridging. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:加速到桥接期间。设置为0可禁用更改打印机的加速度。

English:The fan speed to use during bridging.
Translated:在桥接期间使用的风扇速度。

English:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging. Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.
Translated:这控制了桥接过程中材料挤出机的比例。减少这一点可以帮助通过拉长丝更多的桥接，使用风扇也可以大大的帮助。

English:The speed to move when bridging between walls.
Translated:在墙壁之间桥接时移动的速度。

English:The amount of brim that will be drawn around each object. This is useful to ensure that parts stay affixed to the bed.
Translated:将围绕每个对象绘制边缘的数量。这有助于确保零件保留在床上。

English:The height of the printable area. If set to 0 the parts height will not be validated.
Translated:可打印区域的高度。如果设置为0，零件高度将不会被验证。

English:Each individual part is printed to completion then the extruder is lowered back to the bed and the next part is printed.
Translated:将每个单独的部件印刷完成，然后将挤出机降低回床，并且下一部分被印刷。

English:Moves the extruder up off the part to allow cooling.
Translated:将挤出机向上移动，使其冷却。

English:Turns on and off all cooling settings (all settings below this one).
Translated:打开和关闭所有冷却设置（在此之下的所有设置）。

English:Acceleration to use on all moves not defined above. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:加速使用上面没有定义的所有动作。设置为0可禁用更改打印机的加速度。

English:The number of layers for which the fan will be forced to remain off.
Translated:风扇将被迫保持关闭的层数。

English:This gcode will be inserted at the end of all automatic output (the very end of the gcode commands).
Translated:这个gcode将被插入到所有自动输出结束（gcode命令的最后端）。

English:The speed to print the visible outside edges. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters speed.
Translated:打印可见外边缘的速度。这可以明确设置或以百分比的速度设置。

English:Normally external perimeters are printed last, this makes them go first.
Translated:通常外部印刷最后印刷，这使他们先走。

English:Allow slicer to generate extra perimeters when needed for sloping walls.
Translated:允许切片机在需要倾斜墙壁时产生额外的周长。

English:This is used to figure out how far apart individual parts must be printed to allow them to be completed before printing the next part.
Translated:这是为了弄清楚在打印下一个部件之前，必须打印多少分开的单个部件以使它们能够完成。

English:This is the offset of each extruder relative to the first extruder. Only useful for multiple extruder machines.
Translated:这是每个挤出机相对于第一挤出机的偏移。仅适用于多台挤出机。

English:This is the identifier used in the gcode to specify the extruder.
Translated:这是gcode中用于指定挤出机的标识符。

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 (1.1 is a good max value) will increase the amount of filament being extruded; decreasing it (.9 is a good min value) will decrease the amount being extruded.
Translated:所有挤压乘以该值。增加1以上（1.1是好的最大值）将增加被挤出的长丝的数量;减少它（.9是一个很好的最小值）将减少挤出量。

English:Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation of extrusion width.
Translated:将其保留为0以允许自动计算挤出宽度。

English:This will force the fan to remain on throughout the print. In general you should have this off and just enable auto cooling.
Translated:这将迫使风扇保持打印。一般来说，你应该把它关掉，只是启用自动冷却。

English:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the fan will be turned on.
Translated:如果图层估计需要少于此值才能打印，则风扇将被打开。

English:This should be set to the actual diameter of the filament you are using on your printer. Measure 5 times with calipers, throw out the top and bottom, and average the remaining 3.
Translated:这应该设置为您在打印机上使用的灯丝的实际直径。用卡钳测量5次，扔出顶部和底部，平均剩余3。

English:Sets the starting angle of the infill. Not used when bridging.
Translated:设置填充的起始角度。桥接时不使用。

English:The ratio of material to empty space ranged 0 to 1. Zero would be no infill; 1 is solid infill.
Translated:材料与空白的比例在0到1之间。零是没有填充; 1是实心填充。

English:The pattern used on the inside portions of the print.
Translated:在打印的内部部分使用的图案。

English:Acceleration to use while printing the first layer. Set to 0 to the default first layer acceleration.
Translated:在打印第一层时加速使用。设置为0到默认的第一层加速。

English:The temperature to set the bed to before printing the first layer. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:打印第一层之前将床设置为温度。在打印之前，打印机将等到达到此温度。设置为0以消除床温命令。

English:Setting this to greater than 100% can often help the first layer have better adhesion to the print bed.
Translated:将其设定为大于100％通常可以帮助第一层与印刷床具有更好的附着力。

English:Sets the height of the first layer. It is often desirable to print a taller first layer to ensure a good solid adhesion to the build plate.
Translated:设置第一层的高度。通常希望打印较高的第一层以确保对构建板的良好的固体粘附。

English:The speed to move while printing the first layer.  If expressed as a percentage it will modify the corresponding speed set above.
Translated:打印第一层时移动的速度。如果以百分比表示，它将修改上面设置的相应速度。

English:The temperature to set the extruder to before printing the first layer of a part. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing.
Translated:将挤出机设置到打印第一层零件之前的温度。在打印之前，打印机将等到达到此温度。

English:Use G0 for moves rather than G1.
Translated:使用G0进行移动而不是G1。

English:Speed to fill small gaps. Keep low to avoid vibration. Set to 0 to skip filling small gaps.
Translated:速度弥补小差距。保持低温以避免振动。设置为0以跳过填充小间隙。

English:Use firmware arcs rather than multiple segments for curves.
Translated:使用固件弧，而不是多个段用于曲线。

English:Include detailed comments in the gcode.
Translated:在gcode中包含详细的注释。

English:Some firmware use different g and m codes. Setting this ensures that the output gcode will use the correct commands.
Translated:某些固件使用不同的g和m代码。设置此选项可确保输出gcode将使用正确的命令。

English:Acceleration to use while infilling. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:加油时加油。设置为0可禁用更改打印机的加速度。

English:Sets which layers will receive infill. This should normally stay set to 1 to make strong parts.
Translated:设置哪些层将收到填充。通常应保持为1以制造强力零件。

English:The index of the extruder to use for infill.
Translated:用于填充的挤出机的指数。

English:Sets infill to happen before perimeters are created.
Translated:在填充周期之前设置填充。

English:Creates infill only where it will be used as internal support.
Translated:创建填充只在它将被用作内部支持的填充。

English:The speed to print infill.
Translated:打印填充速度。

English:This gcode will be inserted right after the change in z height for the next layer.
Translated:这个gcode将在下一层的z高度变化之后插入。

English:Sets the height of each layer of the print. A smaller number will create more layers and more vertical accuracy but also a slower print.
Translated:设置打印的每一层的高度。较小的数字将创建更多的层次和更多的垂直精度，但也会减慢打印。

English:This is the maximum speed that your fan can run at.
Translated:这是您的粉丝可以运行的最大速度。

English:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a rectarction can occure.
Translated:这是在直肠发生之前必须挤出的细丝的最小量。

English:This is the minimum fan speed that your fan can run at.
Translated:这是您的粉丝可以运行的最低风扇速度。

English:This is the minimum speed that the printer will reduce to to make the layer take long enough to satisfy the min layer time.
Translated:这是打印机减少到最小速度，使图层花费足够长的时间来满足最小层次的时间。

English:Sets the minimum amount of filament to use drawing the skirt loops. This will cause at least enough skirt loops to be drawn to use this amount of filament.
Translated:设置使用的细丝的最小量画出裙部环。这将导致至少使用足够的裙环来使用该量的细丝。

English:These notes will be added as comments in the header of the output gcode.
Translated:这些注释将作为注释添加到输出gcode的标题中。

English:This is the diameter of your extruder nozle.
Translated:这是你的挤出机的直径。

English:Prevents retraction while within a printing perimeter.
Translated:在打印周边内防止收回。

English:This will lower the temperature of the non-printing extruder to help prevent oozing.
Translated:这将降低非印刷挤出机的温度以帮助防止渗出。

English:Experimental feature that attempts to improve overhangs using the fan and bridge settings.
Translated:尝试使用风扇和桥梁设置来改进悬垂的实验功能。

English:Sets the way that slicer creates file names (this is not used by MatterControl).
Translated:设置切片器创建文件名的方式（MatterControl不使用）。

English:Acceleration to use on perimeters. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:加速使用周长。设置为0可禁用更改打印机的加速度。

English:The index of the extruder to use for perimeters.
Translated:用于周边的挤出机的指数。

English:Sets the default movement speed while printing perimeters.
Translated:设置打印周边时的默认移动速度。

English:The number of external layers or shells to create.
Translated:要创建的外层或外壳的数量。

English:You can include additional programs to process the gcode after slicer is finished. The complete path of the program to run should be included here.
Translated:在切片器完成后，您可以添加其他程序来处理gcode。程序运行的完整路径应该包括在这里。

English:The position (coordinates) of the center of the print bed.
Translated:打印床中心的位置（坐标）。

English:Number of layers to print before printing any parts.
Translated:在打印任何零件之前要打印的层数。

English:Start each new layer from a different vertex to reduce seams.
Translated:从不同的顶点开始每个新层以减少接缝。

English:The minimum distance of a non-printing move that will result in a retraction.
Translated:导致缩回的非打印移动的最小距离。

English:If set, a retraction will occur prior to changing the layer height.
Translated:如果设置，则在更改层高度之前会发生缩回。

English:The amount that the filament will be reversed after each qualifying non-printing move.
Translated:每次合格的非印刷动作后，灯丝将被逆转。

English:The amount that the filament will be reversed before changing to a new tool.
Translated:在更换为新工具之前灯丝将被逆转的量。

English:The amount the extruder head will be lifted after each retraction.
Translated:每次收缩之后，挤出机头将被提升的量。

English:The amount the filament will be retracted when changing to a different extruder.
Translated:当更换为不同的挤出机时，长丝将被缩回。

English:No updates are currently available.
Translated:目前没有更新。

English:Additional amount of filament that will be extruded after a retraction.
Translated:在退缩后将被挤出的额外的细丝数量。

English:The amount of extra extrusion that will occur when an extruder is selected.
Translated:当选择挤出机时将发生的额外挤出量。

English:The speed that the filament will be retracted (and re-extruded).
Translated:长丝将被缩回（并重新挤出）的速度。

English:The minimum feature size to consider from the model. Leave at 0 to use all the model detail.
Translated:从模型中考虑的最小特征尺寸。离开0使用所有的模型细节。

English:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop.
Translated:开始绘制第一个裙环的距离。

English:The number of layers to draw the skirt.
Translated:画裙数量。

English:The number of loops to draw around all the parts on the bed.
Translated:围绕床上所有部分的循环数。

English:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the movement speed will be reduced to try and make the layer take this long to print.
Translated:如果一层估计需要少于此值进行打印，则移动速度将会降低，以使图层花费很长的时间来打印。

English:Used for small perimeters (usually holes). This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters' speed.
Translated:用于小周长（通常为孔）。这可以明确设置或以百分比的速度设置。

English:The pattern used on the bottom and top layers of the print.
Translated:在打印的底层和顶层使用的图案。

English:Forces solid infill for any area less than this amount.
Translated:对于小于此数量的区域，强制实心填充。

English:Sets how often a layer will be forced to be solid infilled. Zero will result in normal infill throughout.
Translated:设置层被强制填充的频率。零将导致正常填充。

English:The speed to print infill when completely solid. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:完全固化时打印填充速度。这可以明确设置，也可以设置为“填充速度”的百分比。

English:Force the print to have only one layer and gradually increase the extruder height during the print. Only one part can be printed at a time with this feature.
Translated:强制打印只有一层，并在打印期间逐渐增加挤出机的高度。此功能一次只能打印一部分。

English:This is the amount to lower the temperature of an extruder that is not currently printing.
Translated:这是降低当前不打印的挤出机的温度的量。

English:This gcode will be inserted into the output right after the temperature setting. If you have the commands to set temperature in this section they will not be generated outside of this section. You can also include values from other settings such as [first_layer_temperature].
Translated:温度设置后，此gcode将被插入输出。如果您有本节中设置温度的命令，则不会在本节之外生成。您还可以包括其他设置的值，例如[first_layer_temperature]。

English:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is a concave point.
Translated:确保周界上的第一个点是凹点。

English:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is not an overhang.
Translated:确保周界上的第一个点不是悬垂的。

English:The starting angle of the supports.
Translated:支架的起始角度。

English:Create support where needed on internal features.
Translated:在内部功能需要时创建支持。

English:Generate support material everywhere not touching the bed for n layers, regardless of angle.
Translated:生成支撑材料，无论角度如何，都不会碰到n层的床。

English:The index of the extruder to use for support material.
Translated:用于支撑材料的挤出机的指数。

English:The index of the extruder to use for support material interface layers.
Translated:用于支撑材料界面层的挤出机的指数。

English:The number of layers to print between the supports and the part.
Translated:在支撑和零件之间打印的层数。

English:The space between lines of the interface layers (0 is solid).
Translated:界面层之间的间隔（0为实心）。

English:The pattern used while generating support material.
Translated:生成支撑材料时使用的图案。

English:The space between the lines of he support material.
Translated:他的线之间的空间支撑材料。

English:The speed to print support material structures.
Translated:打印支持材料结构的速度。

English:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support. Set to 0 to enable automatic settings.
Translated:将产生支撑材料的最后一个角度。更大的数量将导致更多的支持。设置为0可启用自动设置。

English:The distance the support material will be from the object in the x and y direction.
Translated:支撑材料在x和y方向上距离物体的距离。

English:The distance the support material will be from the object in the z direction.
Translated:支撑材料距离物体在z方向的距离。

English:This turns on and off the generation of support material.
Translated:这打开和关闭支持材料的生成。

English:The temperature to set the extruder to after the first layer has been printed.
Translated:将挤出机设置到第一层之后的温度已被印刷。

English:Detect when walls are too close together and need to be extruded as just one wall.
Translated:检测墙壁是否太靠近时，需要挤压成一个墙壁。

English:The number of CPU cores to use while doing slicing. Increasing this can slow down your machine.
Translated:在切片时要使用的CPU内核数。增加这可能会减慢您的机器。

English:This gcode will be inserted after every tool change.
Translated:每个工具更换后都会插入此gcode。

English:The speed to print the top infill. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:打印顶部填充的速度。这可以明确设置，也可以设置为“填充速度”的百分比。

English:How many layers will be solid filled on the top surfaces of the object.
Translated:在物体的顶部表面上将固体填充多少层。

English:Speed to move when not extruding material.
Translated:不挤出材料时移动的速度。

English:Request the firmware to do retractions rather than specify the extruder movements directly.
Translated:请求固件进行撤销，而不是直接指定挤出机移动。

English:Normally you will want to use absolute e distances. Only check this if you know your printer needs relative e distances.
Translated:通常你将要使用绝对距离。只有当您知道您的打印机需要相对距离时才检查。

English:This is to help reduce vibrations during printing. If your printer has a resonance frequency that is causing trouble you can set this to try and reduce printing at that frequency.
Translated:这是为了减少印刷过程中的振动。如果您的打印机具有引起故障的共振频率，则可以设置此频率以尝试减少该频率下的打印。

English:This will cause the extruder to move while retracting to minimize blobs.
Translated:这将导致挤出机在缩回时移动以最小化斑点。

English:This value will be added to all of the z positions of the created gcode.
Translated:该值将被添加到创建的gcode的所有z位置。

English:Print
Translated:打印

English:Layers/Perimeters
Translated:层/周长

English:Layer Height
Translated:层高

English:Perimeters (minimum)
Translated:周长（最小）

English:Vertical Shells
Translated:垂直的贝壳

English:Infill
Translated:填充

English:Fill Density
Translated:填充密度

English:Fill Pattern
Translated:填充图案

English:Support Material
Translated:支撑材料

English:Generate Support Material
Translated:生成支持材料

English:Filament
Translated:灯丝

English:Diameter
Translated:直径

English:Extrude First Layer
Translated:挤出第一层

English:Extruder Other Layers
Translated:挤出机其他层

English:Bed First Layer
Translated:床第一层

English:Bed Other Layers
Translated:床其他层

English:Temperature (�C)
Translated:温度（℃）

English:Cooling
Translated:冷却

English:Enable Auto Cooling
Translated:启用自动冷却

English:Enable
Translated:启用

English:Printer
Translated:打印机

English:General
Translated:一般

English:Bed Size
Translated:床尺寸

English:Print Center
Translated:打印中心

English:Build Height
Translated:建立高度

English:Size and Coordinates
Translated:尺寸和坐标

English:Extruder 1
Translated:挤出机1

English:Nozzle Diameter
Translated:喷嘴直径

English:Size
Translated:尺寸

English:Configuration
Translated:组态

English:EEProm Settings
Translated:EEProm设置

English:CONFIGURE
Translated:配置

English:Automatic Calibration
Translated:自动校准

English:ENABLE
Translated:启用

English:DISABLE
Translated:禁止

English:Enable Automatic Print Leveling
Translated:启用自动打印调平

English:Automatic Print Leveling (disabled)
Translated:自动打印调平（禁用）

English:Extruder Temperature
Translated:挤出机温度

English:View Manual Printer Controls and Slicing Settings
Translated:查看手动打印机控制和切片设置

English:View Queue and Library
Translated:查看队列和库

English:Bed Temperature
Translated:床温

English:This gcode will be inserted when the print is canceled.
Translated:取消打印时，将插入此gcode。

English:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is paused.
Translated:打印机暂停时，将插入此gcode。

English:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is resumed.
Translated:打印机恢复时将插入此gcode。

English:Print Time
Translated:打印时间

English:Filament Length
Translated:长丝长度

English:Filament Volume
Translated:长丝体积

English:Weight
Translated:重量

English:Show Grid
Translated:显示网格

English:Show Moves
Translated:显示移动

English:Show Retractions
Translated:显示缩进

English:Go
Translated:走

English:start:
Translated:开始：

English:end:
Translated:结束：

English:There is a recommended update available.
Translated:有推荐的更新可用。

English:Layer View
Translated:图层视图

English:Connect to Printer
Translated:连接到打印机

English:Choose a 3D Printer Configuration
Translated:选择3D打印机配置

English:Unavailable
Translated:不可用

English:Refresh
Translated:刷新

English:Automatic Print Leveling (enabled)
Translated:自动打印调平（启用）

English:Connecting
Translated:连接

English:Status: {0} - {1}
Translated:状态：{0}  -  {1}

English:edit
Translated:编辑

English:remove
Translated:去掉

English:Printer Name
Translated:打印机名称

English:(refresh)
Translated:（刷新）

English:Serial Port
Translated:串行端口

English:Baud Rate
Translated:波特率

English:Other
Translated:其他

English:Printer Make
Translated:打印机制造

English:Printer Model
Translated:打印机型号

English:Auto Connect
Translated:自动连接

English:Preparing To Print
Translated:准备打印

English:Preparing to slice model
Translated:准备切片模型

English:Printing
Translated:打印

English:Filter Output
Translated:滤波器输出

English:Auto Uppercase
Translated:自动大写

English:Send
Translated:发送

English:MatterControl - Terminal
Translated:物品控制 - 终端

English:First Layer Height
Translated:第一层高度

English:Spiral Vase
Translated:螺旋花瓶

English:Number of Solid Layers\non the Top:
Translated:顶层数量的实体层数\ n：

English:Number of Solid Layers\non the Bottom:
Translated:底层数量\ n在底部：

English:Horizontal Shells
Translated:水平壳

English:Speed
Translated:速度

English:Perimeters
Translated:周长

English:Speed for Print Moves
Translated:速度打印移动

English:Travel
Translated:旅行

English:Speed for non Print Moves
Translated:非打印移动速度

English:First Layer Speed
Translated:第一层速度

English:Modifiers
Translated:修饰符

English:Skirt and Brim
Translated:裙子和边缘

English:Loops
Translated:循环

English:Distance from Object
Translated:距离对象

English:Minimum Extrusion Length
Translated:最小挤出长度

English:Skirt
Translated:短裙

English:Overhang Threshold
Translated:突出门槛

English:Pattern Spacing
Translated:图案间距

English:X and Y Distance
Translated:X和Y距离

English:Z Distance
Translated:Z距离

English:Internal Support
Translated:内部支持

English:Notes
Translated:笔记

English:Output Options
Translated:输出选项

English:Multiple Extruders
Translated:多个挤出机

English:Advanced
Translated:高级

English:Enable Extruder Lift
Translated:启用挤出机电梯

English:Min Fan Speed
Translated:最小风速

English:Max Fan Speed
Translated:最大风扇速度

English:Disable Fan For The First
Translated:首先禁用风扇

English:Fan Speed
Translated:风扇转速

English:Slow Down If Layer Print\nTime Is Below
Translated:如果图层打印\ n时间慢于下降

English:Cooling Thresholds
Translated:冷却阈值

English:Bed Shape
Translated:床形

English:Custom G-Code
Translated:自定义G代码

English:Start G-Code
Translated:启动G代码

English:End G-Code
Translated:结束G代码

English:Length
Translated:长度

English:Minimum Travel After\nRetraction
Translated:\退回后的最小旅行

English:Min Extrusion
Translated:最小挤压

English:Retraction
Translated:退缩

English:Generate Extra Perimeters\nWhen Needed:
Translated:生成额外的周长\ n需要时：

English:Avoid Crossing Perimeters
Translated:避免穿越周长

English:Start At Concave Points
Translated:从凹点开始

English:Start At Non Overhang
Translated:从不伸出开始

English:Thin Walls
Translated:薄壁

English:Quality (slower slicing)
Translated:质量（较慢切片）

English:Randomize Starting Points
Translated:随机起始点

English:External Perimeters First
Translated:外围周边

English:Top/Bottom Fill Pattern
Translated:顶部/底部填充图案

English:Infill Every
Translated:充满每一个

English:Only Infill Where Needed
Translated:只有在需要的地方

English:Solid Infill Every
Translated:固体填充

English:Fill Angle
Translated:填充角度

English:Solid Infill Threshold Area
Translated:固体填充阈值区域

English:Only Retract When\nCrossing Perimeters
Translated:只有在\ n穿越周长时才会收回

English:Do Infill Before Perimeters
Translated:在Perimeter之前进行填充

English:Small Perimeters
Translated:小周长

English:External Perimeters
Translated:外部周长

English:Solid Infill
Translated:固体含量

English:Top Solid Infill
Translated:顶部固体填充物

English:Bridges
Translated:桥梁

English:Gap Fill
Translated:填补空白

English:Min Print Speed
Translated:最小打印速度

English:Bridge
Translated:桥

English:First Layer
Translated:第一层

English:Default
Translated:默认

English:Acceleration Control
Translated:加速控制

English:Skirt Height
Translated:裙子高度

English:Brim Width
Translated:边缘宽度

English:Brim
Translated:边缘

English:Enforce Support For First
Translated:首先实施支持

English:Raft Layers
Translated:筏层

English:Raft
Translated:筏

English:Pattern
Translated:模式

English:Pattern Angle
Translated:图案角度

English:Interface Layers
Translated:界面层

English:Interface Pattern Spacing
Translated:接口模式间距

English:Complete Individual Objects
Translated:完成个人对象

English:Extruder Clearance Height
Translated:挤出机间隙高度

English:Extruder Clearance Radius
Translated:挤出机间隙半径

English:Sequential Printing
Translated:顺序打印

English:Verbose G-Code
Translated:详细G代码

English:Output File Name Format
Translated:输出文件名格式

English:Output File
Translated:输出文件

English:Post-Processing Scripts
Translated:后处理脚本

English:Perimeter Extruder
Translated:周边挤出机

English:Infill Extruder
Translated:灌装挤出机

English:Support Material Extruder
Translated:支撑材料挤出机

English:Support Interface Extruder
Translated:支持接口挤出机

English:Extruders
Translated:挤出机

English:Temp Lower Amount
Translated:温度较低

English:Ooze Prevention
Translated:渗透预防

English:Default Extrusion Width
Translated:默认挤出宽度

English:Extrusion Width
Translated:挤出宽度

English:Bridge Flow Ratio
Translated:桥梁流量比

English:Flow
Translated:流

English:Threads
Translated:线程

English:Resolution
Translated:解析度

English:Extrusion Axis
Translated:挤出轴

English:Optimize Overhangs
Translated:优化悬垂

English:Keep Fan Always On
Translated:保持风扇始终开启

English:Bridging Fan Speed
Translated:桥接风扇速度

English:Enable Fan If Layer\nPrint Time Is Below
Translated:如果Layer \ n打印时间在下面，则启用Fan

English:Z Offset
Translated:Z偏移

English:G-Code Flavor
Translated:G代码风味

English:Use Relative E Distances
Translated:使用相对E距离

English:Use Arcs
Translated:使用弧

English:Use G0
Translated:使用G0

English:Firmware
Translated:固件

English:Use Firmware Retraction
Translated:使用固件退回

English:Vibration Limit
Translated:振动极限

English:Layer Change G-Code
Translated:层更改G代码

English:Tool Change G-Code
Translated:工具更换G代码

English:Pause G-Code
Translated:暂停G代码

English:Resume G-Code
Translated:恢复G代码

English:Cancel G-Code
Translated:取消G代码

English:Extruder Offset
Translated:挤出机胶印

English:Position (for multi-extrude printers)
Translated:位置（适用于多次打印机）

English:Change Tool
Translated:更换工具

English:Z Lift
Translated:Z电梯

English:Extra Length On Restart
Translated:重新启动时的额外长度

English:Retract on Layer Change
Translated:在层更改上撤消

English:Wipe Before Retract
Translated:撤回之前擦拭

English:Retraction When Tool is Disabled (for multi-extruders)
Translated:刀具停用时退刀（对于多重挤出机）

English:Paused
Translated:暂停

English:Printing Paused
Translated:打印暂停

English:Ok
Translated:好

English:Finished Print
Translated:完成打印

English:Done Printing
Translated:完成打印

English:Save As
Translated:另存为

English:Installed Plugins
Translated:已安装插件

English:Select a Design Tool
Translated:选择一个设计工具

English:Temperature (C)
Translated:温度（℃）

English:Language Settings
Translated:语言设定

English:Select Model
Translated:选择模型

English:Theme Settings
Translated:主题设置

English:New updates are ready to install.
Translated:新的更新可以安装。

English:Select Language
Translated:选择语言

English:File not found on disk.
Translated:磁盘上找不到文件。

English:Not connected. Press 'Connect' to enable printing.
Translated:未连接。按“连接”启用打印。

English:Loading Parts
Translated:装载零件

English:CONNECT
Translated:CONNECT

English:DISCONNECT
Translated:断开

English:OPTIONS
Translated:选项

English:QUEUE
Translated:队列

English:STATUS
Translated:状态

English:CONTROLS
Translated:控制

English:SLICE SETTINGS
Translated:菜单设置

English:CONFIGURATION
Translated:组态

English:MODEL
Translated:模型

English:LAYER
Translated:层

English:DISPLAY
Translated:显示

English:PRINT TIME
Translated:打印时间

English:FILAMENT LENGTH
Translated:纤维长度

English:FILAMENT VOLUME
Translated:FILAMENT VOLUME

English:WEIGHT
Translated:重量

English:EST. WEIGHT
Translated:美东时间。重量

English:Saving
Translated:保存

English:Export File
Translated:导出文件

English:File export options
Translated:文件导出选项

English:Export as
Translated:导出为

English:Show file in folder after save
Translated:保存后显示文件夹中的文件

English:HISTORY
Translated:历史

English:LIBRARY
Translated:图书馆

English:Developed By: 
Translated:由开发：

English: to help support MatterControl.
Translated: 帮助支持MatterControl。

English:ABOUT
Translated:关于

English:Oops! Could not find this file
Translated:糟糕！找不到此文件

English:Would you like to remove it from the queue
Translated:是否要将其从队列中删除

English:Item not Found
Translated:项目未找到

English:Yes
Translated:是

English:No
Translated:没有

English:History
Translated:历史

English:Slicing Error. Please review your slice settings.
Translated:切片错误。请检查您的切片设置。

English:Quality
Translated:质量

English:First Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.
Translated:“第一层高度”必须小于或等于“喷嘴直径”。

English:This will cause the print to be centered on the bed. Disable this if you know your models have been created where you want them to print.
Translated:这将导致打印在床上居中。如果您知道自己的型号已经创建到要打印的位置，请禁用此功能。

English:Center On Bed
Translated:中心在床上

English:Center Print
Translated:中心打印

English:Note
Translated:注意

English:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile.
Translated:要启用GCode导出，请选择打印机配置文件。

English:The amount to remove from the bottom of the model
Translated:从模型底部移除的量

English:The amount the infill edge will push into the preimiter. Helps ensure the infill is connected to the edge.
Translated:填充边缘将推入预定影像的量。有助于确保填充物连接到边缘。

English:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop. Make this 0 to create an anchor for the part to the bed.
Translated:开始绘制第一个裙环的距离。使此0为床上的零件创建一个锚点。

English:Bottom Clip
Translated:底部夹

English:Infill Overlap
Translated:填充重叠

English:Inside Perimeters
Translated:内围

English:Outside Perimeter
Translated:外围

English:Sets the default movement speed while printing inside perimeters.
Translated:设置在周边打印时的默认移动速度。

English:The type of support to create for surfaces that need it.
Translated:要为需要的表面创建的支持类型。

English:Support Type
Translated:支持类型

English:Top & Bottom Layers
Translated:顶层和底层

English:
Translated:

English:gcode_output_type
Translated:gcode_output_type

English:Starting Angle
Translated:起始角度

English:The space between the lines of the support material.
Translated:支撑材料的线之间的空间。

English:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support.
Translated:将产生支撑材料的最后一个角度。更大的数量将导致更多的支持。

English:Add Printer
Translated:添加打印机

English:If greater than 0, this is the distance away from parts to create a parimeter to wipe when entering.
Translated:如果大于0，这是距离部件的距离，以便在进入时创建表盘擦拭。

English:Wipe Shield Dist
Translated:擦屏蔽区

English:Wipe Shield
Translated:擦拭盾

English:  Remove All
Translated:  移除所有

English:The number of layers to skip in z. The gap between the support and the model.
Translated:z中要跳过的层数。支持与模型之间的差距。

English:Z Gap
Translated:Z间隙

English:Print Again
Translated:再次打印

English:Turns on and off the creation of a raft which can help parts adhear to the bed.
Translated:打开和关闭一个木筏的创建，这可以帮助零件粘在床上。

English:Enable Raft
Translated:启用筏

English:Create Raft
Translated:创建筏

English:The amount of overhangs to support. 0 is no support 100 is support every overhang regardless of angle.
Translated:支持的数量。 0是不支持100支持每个突出，无论角度如何。

English:Overhang Percent
Translated:突出百分比

English:support_material_overhang_percent
Translated:support_material_overhang_percent

English:Device
Translated:设备

English:Material
Translated:材料

English:Item
Translated:项目

English:Wipe Shield Distance
Translated:擦拭屏蔽距离

English: Remove All
Translated: 移除所有

English:Slice Presets Editor
Translated:切片预设编辑器

English:Attempting to Connect
Translated:尝试连接

English:Making Copy
Translated:制作副本

English:Arranging Parts
Translated:安排零件

English:Only Show Completed
Translated:只显示已完成

English:Show Timestamp
Translated:显示时间戳

English:Render Type
Translated:渲染类型

English:Shaded
Translated:阴影

English:Outlines
Translated:大纲

English:Polygons
Translated:多边形

English:New updates may be available.
Translated:可能有新的更新。

English:Unable to communicate with printer.
Translated:无法与打印机通信。

English:Item selected. Press 'Start' to begin your print.
Translated:已选项按“开始”开始打印。

English:Disconnecting
Translated:断开连接

English:Leveling Settings
Translated:调平设置

English:Movement Speeds Presets
Translated:移动速度预设

English:Axis
Translated:轴

English:Sampled Positions
Translated:抽样职位

English:Position
Translated:位置

English:Do not show this again
Translated:不要再显示

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nGCode files tell your printer exactly what to do.  They are not modified by SliceSettings and my not be appropriate for your specific printer configuration.\n\nOnly print from GCode files if you know they mach your current printer and configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:您尝试打印的文件是GCode文件。\n\nGCode文件告诉您的打印机要做什么。它们不被SliceSettings修改，我不适合您的特定打印机配置。 \ NN \只有在您知道当前打印机和配置的情况下，才能从GCode文件打印。 \ NN \您确定要打印此GCode文件吗？

English:Cannot find\n'{0}'.\nWould you like to remove it from the queue?
Translated:找不到\ n“{0}”。 \ n是否要将其从队列中删除？

English:Item not found
Translated:找不到物品

English:Welcome to the print leveling wizard. Here is a quick overview on what we are going to do.
Translated:欢迎使用打印调平向导。这是一个快速的概述，我们将要做什么。

English:'Home' the printer
Translated:'家'打印机

English:Sample the bed at three points
Translated:在三点取样床

English:Turn auto leveling on
Translated:打开自动调平

English:You should be done in about 3 minutes.
Translated:你应该在大约3分钟内完成。

English:Click 'Next' to continue.
Translated:点击“下一步”继续。

English:The printer should now be 'homing'. Once it is finished homing we will move it to the first point to sample.\n\nTo complete the next few steps you will need
Translated:打印机现在应该是“归位”。一旦完成归位，我们将把它移动到第一个采样点。 \ NN \完成您需要的接下来的几个步骤

English:A standard sheet of paper
Translated:一张标准纸

English:We will use this paper to measure the distance between the extruder and the bed.\n\nClick 'Next' to continue.
Translated:我们将使用本文来测量挤出机和床之间的距离。 \ NN \点击“下一步”继续。

English:Congratulations!\n\nAuto Print Leveling is now configured and enabled.
Translated:恭喜！ \ NN \自动打印调平现在已配置并启用。

English:Remove the paper
Translated:取出纸张

English:If in the future you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can uncheck the 'Enabled' button found in 'Advanced Settings'->'Printer Controls'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:如果将来您希望关闭自动打印调平，可以取消选中“高级设置” - >“打印机控制”中的“启用”按钮。 \ NN \点击“完成”关闭此窗口。

English:Step
Translated:步

English:of
Translated:的

English:Print Leveling Wizard
Translated:打印调平向导

English:Back
Translated:背部

English:Next
Translated:下一个

English:Low Precision
Translated:低精度

English:Using the [Z] controls on this screen, we will now take a coarse measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:使用此屏幕上的[Z]控件，我们现在将粗略测量该位置的挤出机高度。

English:Place the paper under the extruder
Translated:将纸放在挤出机下面

English:Using the above contols
Translated:使用上述轮廓

English:Press [Z-] until there is resistance to moving the paper
Translated:按[Z-]直到有移动纸张的阻力

English:Press [Z+] once to release the paper
Translated:按[Z +]一次释放纸张

English:Finally click 'Next' to continue.
Translated:最后点击“下一步”继续。

English:This part of your bed is too low for the extruder to reach it. You need to raise your bed, or lower your limit, for print leveling to work.
Translated:床的这部分太低，挤压机不能到达。你需要升起你的床，或者降低你的极限，使打印调平工作。

English:Waring Moving Too Low
Translated:看起来太低了

English:Medium Precision
Translated:中等精度

English:We will now refine our measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:我们现在将在这个位置改进我们对挤出机高度的测量。

English:High Precision
Translated:高精准度

English:We will now finalize our measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:我们现在将在此位置完成我们对挤出机高度的测量。

English:Press [Z-] one click PAST the first hint of resistance
Translated:按[Z-]一键点击第一个提示

English:Save Parts Sheet
Translated:保存零件表

English:MatterContol
Translated:MatterContol

English:Saving to Parts Sheet
Translated:保存到零件表

English:Stop trying to connect to the printer
Translated:停止尝试连接到打印机

English:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer
Translated:未选择打印机按“连接”选择打印机

English:About                                             
Translated:关于

English:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging.Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.
Translated:这控制了桥接期间材料挤出机的比例。略微减少这种纤维可以通过拉长丝来帮助桥接更多，使用风扇也可以大大帮助。

English:The default temperature to set the bed to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:将床设置为默认温度。有时可以覆盖第一层。设置为0以消除床温命令。

English:The default temperature to set the extruder to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer.
Translated:设定挤出机的默认温度。有时可以覆盖第一层。

English:Macro Editor
Translated:宏编辑器

English:Macro Presets
Translated:宏预设

English:Edit Macro
Translated:编辑宏

English:Macro Name
Translated:宏名称

English:Give your macro a name
Translated:给你的宏一个名字

English:Macro Commands
Translated:宏命令

English:This should be in 'Gcode'
Translated:这应该在'Gcode'

English:3D Printer Setup
Translated:3D打印机设置

English:Give your printer a name.
Translated:给你的打印机一个名字。

English:Select Make
Translated:选择Make

English:Select the printer manufacturer
Translated:选择打印机制造商

English:Select the printer model
Translated:选择打印机型号

English:Save & Continue
Translated:保存并继续

English:MatterControl will now attempt to auto-detect printer.
Translated:MatterControl将尝试自动检测打印机。

English:Disconnect printer
Translated:断开打印机连接

English:if currently connected
Translated:如果当前连接

English:Press
Translated:按

English:Continue
Translated:继续

English:Manual Configuration
Translated:手动配置

English:Setup Manual Configuration
Translated:安装手册配置

English:or
Translated:要么

English:Skip Printer Connection
Translated:跳过打印机连接

English:You can either
Translated:你也可以

English:You can also
Translated:你也可以

English:Extruder Temperature Settings
Translated:挤出机温度设置

English:Temperature Shortcut Presets
Translated:温度快捷预设

English:Label
Translated:标签

English:Preset
Translated:预设

English:Max Temp.
Translated:最高温度

English:Bed Temperature Settings
Translated:床温设置

English:Movement Speeds
Translated:移动速度

English:Extruder
Translated:挤出机

English:Power on and connect printer
Translated:打开电源并连接打印机

English:Attempting to connect
Translated:尝试连接

English:Connection succeeded
Translated:连接成功

English:You cannot move any lower. This position on your bed is too low for the extruder to reach. You need to raise your bed, or adjust your limits to allow the extruder to go lower.
Translated:你不能移动任何更低。床上的这个位置对于挤出机来说太低了。您需要升高床，或调整您的极限，以使挤出机降低。

English:Edit Preset
Translated:编辑预设

English:Slice-Engine
Translated:切片机

English:Status: Completed
Translated:状态：已完成

English:Unlock
Translated:开锁

English:Show Terminal
Translated:展示终端

English:Configure
Translated:配置

English:Disable
Translated:禁用

English:Est. Weight
Translated:美东时间。重量

English:Downloading updates...
Translated:正在下载更新...

English:Duplicate
Translated:重复

English:End
Translated:结束

English:The type of support to create inside of parts.
Translated:在零件中创建的支持类型。

English:Infill Type
Translated:填充类型

English:Release Options
Translated:发行选项

English:No items to select. Press 'Add' to select a file to print.
Translated:没有要选择的项目。按“添加”选择要打印的文件。

English:Unknown
Translated:未知

English:Press 'Add' to select an item.
Translated:按“添加”选择一个项目。

English:Shop
Translated:店

English:Slicing Error
Translated:切片错误

English:Ready to Print
Translated:准备打印

English:File Not Found\n'{0}'
Translated:找不到文件\ n'{0}'

English:Slicing Error.\nPlease review your slice settings.
Translated:切片错误。 \ n请检查您的切片设置。

English:Special thanks to:
Translated:特别感谢：

English:Alessandro Ranellucci for 
Translated:Alessandro Ranellucci为

English:David Braam and Ultimaker BV for 
Translated:David Braam和Ultimaker BV

English:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile
Translated:要启用GCode导出，请选择打印机配置文件

English:MatterControl: Submit an Issue
Translated:问题控制：提交问题

English:Submit
Translated:提交

English:How can we help?
Translated:我们能帮你什么吗？

English:Submitting your information...
Translated:提交您的信息...

English:Question*
Translated:题*

English:Briefly describe your question
Translated:简要说明你的问题

English:Details*
Translated:细节*

English:Fill in the details here
Translated:在这里填写细节

English:Your Email Address*
Translated:您的电子邮件地址*

English:Your Name*
Translated:你的名字*

English:Version 
Translated:版

English:Developed by:
Translated:由开发：

English:Send FeedBack
Translated:发送反馈

English:Build: 
Translated:建立：

English:Update Feed
Translated:更新Feed

English:File
Translated:文件

English:Import File
Translated:导入文件

English:Exit
Translated:出口

English:Help
Translated:帮帮我

English:Getting Started
Translated:入门

English:View Help
Translated:查看帮助

English:Manually Configure Connection
Translated:手动配置连接

English:Skip Connection Setup
Translated:跳过连接设置

English:Currently available serial ports.
Translated:目前可用的串行端口。

English:What's this?
Translated:这是什么？

English:The 'Serial Port' identifies which connected device is\nyour printer. Changing which usb plug you use may\nchange the associated serial port.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain, plug-in in your printer and hit\nrefresh. The new port that appears should be your\nprinter.
Translated:“串行端口”标识哪个连接的设备是\ n您的打印机。更改您使用的USB插头可能会改变相关串行端口。 \ NN \提示：如果您不确定，请插入打印机并点击\ n刷新。出现的新端口应该是您的\ n打印机。

English:Connection succeeded!
Translated:连接成功了！

English:Oops! Unable to install update.
Translated:糟糕！无法安装更新。

English:Motor de Capas
Translated:马德拉卡帕斯

English:Your application is up-to-date.
Translated:您的申请是最新的。

English:Install Communication Driver
Translated:安装通讯驱动程序

English:This printer requires a driver for communication.
Translated:该打印机需要一个驱动程序进行通信。

English:Driver located. Would you like to install?
Translated:司机位。你想安装吗？

English:Install Driver
Translated:安装驱动程序

English:Apply
Translated:应用

English:Buy Materials
Translated:购买材料

English:Select an STL file
Translated:选择一个STL文件

English:Add File
Translated:添加文件

English:Time
Translated:时间

English:Press 'Connect' to select a printer.
Translated:按“连接”选择打印机。

English:Marlin Firmware EEPROM Settings
Translated:Marlin固件EEPROM设置

English:Re-Load Default Settings
Translated:重新加载默认设置

English:Set Default To Factory Settings
Translated:将默认设置为出厂设置

English:Steps per mm:
Translated:每毫米步数

English:Maximum feedrates [mm/s]:
Translated:最大进给速度[mm / s]：

English:Maximum Acceleration [mm/s²]:
Translated:最大加速度[mm /s²]：

English:Acceleration:
Translated:加速度：

English:Retract Acceleration:
Translated:退缩加速度：

English:PID settings:
Translated:PID设置：

English:Homing Offset:
Translated:归位偏移：

English:Min feedrate [mm/s]:
Translated:最小进给速度[mm / s]：

English:Min travel feedrate [mm/s]:
Translated:最小行进进给率[mm / s]：

English:Minimum segment time [ms]:
Translated:最小段时间[ms]：

English:Maximum X-Y jerk [mm/s]:
Translated:最大X-Y冲击力[mm / s]：

English:Maximum Z jerk [mm/s]:
Translated:最大冲击力[mm / s]：

English:Make Settings Active
Translated:使设置激活

English:Make Settings Active\nAnd Save To Default
Translated:使设置激活\ n并保存到默认值

English:Design Add-ons
Translated:设计插件

English:Lock Ratio
Translated:锁定比

English:Retrieving download info...
Translated:检索下载信息...

English:G-Code Output
Translated:G代码输出

English:The extra distance the raft will extend around the part.
Translated:木筏将围绕零件延伸的额外距离。

English:The percent of the 'Nozzle Diameter' that is the gap between the raft and the first layer. A smaller percent will make the part stick more. A larger percent will make it stick less.
Translated:“喷嘴直径”的百分比是筏和第一层之间的间隙。较小的百分比将使零件更多。较大的百分比将使其变得更少。

English:Distance
Translated:距离

English:Gap Percent
Translated:差距百分比

English:Try to connect mesh edges when the actual mesh data is not all the way connected.
Translated:当实际的网格数据不是全部连接时，尝试连接网格边。

English:Sometime a mesh will not have closed a perimeters. When this is checked these non-closed perimeters while be closed.
Translated:有时网格不会封闭一个周边。当这些非闭合的周边被关闭时被检查。

English:Reverse the orientation of overlaps. This can make some unintended holes go away.
Translated:反转重叠的方向。这可能会使一些意想不到的漏洞消失。

English:Make all overlap areas into one big area. This can make some unintended holes go away..
Translated:使所有重叠区域成为一个大区域。这可能会使一些意想不到的漏洞消失。

English:Repair
Translated:修理

English:Connect Bad Edges
Translated:连接坏边缘

English:Close Polygons
Translated:关闭多边形

English:Reverse Orientation
Translated:反向

English:Merge All
Translated:合并全部

English:Overlaps
Translated:重叠

English:The distance between the first layer and the top of the raft. A good value is typically about 1/2 your extrusion diameter. So, between 0.0 and .2 for a .4 nozzle.
Translated:筏子的第一层和顶部之间的距离。一个很好的值通常是挤出直径的1/2。因此，对于.4喷嘴，在0.0和.2之间。

English:Air Gap
Translated:气隙

English:Outline Distance
Translated:轮廓距离

English:Distance Around Object
Translated:物体距离

English:Minimum Travel\nRequiring Retraction
Translated:最小旅行\ n要求撤回

English:Show Printing
Translated:显示打印

English:Show Current
Translated:显示当前

English:Printer Sync
Translated:打印机同步

English:Sync To Print
Translated:同步打印

English:Layers
Translated:层层

English:Show 3D
Translated:显示3D

English:Uh-oh! Could not connect to printer.
Translated:呃哦！无法连接到打印机。

English:Installing
Translated:安装

English:Initial Printer Setup
Translated:初始打印机设置

English:Homing The Printer
Translated:归位打印机

English:If in the future you need to re-calibrate your printer, or you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can find the print leveling controls in 'Advanced Settings'->'Configuration'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:如果将来您需要重新校准打印机，或者要关闭自动打印调平，可以在“高级设置” - >“配置”中找到打印调平控件。 \ NN \点击“完成”关闭此窗口。

English:Print Leveling Overview
Translated:打印调平概述

English:Note: Be sure the tip of the extrude is clean.
Translated:注意：确保拉伸的尖端干净。

English:Title Stuff
Translated:标题

English:Oops! You cannot exit while a print is active.
Translated:糟糕！打印有效时无法退出。

English:Unable to Exit
Translated:无法退出

English:You are currently saving a parts sheet, are you sure you want to exit?
Translated:您正在保存零件表，您确定要退出吗？

English:Confirm Exit
Translated:确认退出

English:Disconnect and cancel the current print?
Translated:断开并取消当前打印？

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the current print.\n\nDo you want to disconnect?
Translated:警告：断开连接将取消当前打印。 \ NN \要断开连接吗？

English:Note: Slice Settings are applied before the print actually starts. Changes while printing will not effect the active print.
Translated:注意：打印实际开始之前应用切片设置。打印时更改不会影响活动打印。

English:The extruder is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting extruder temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}
Translated:挤出机目前正在加热，其目标温度不能改变，直到达到{0}℃。 \ NN \您可以在“切片设置” - >“长丝”中设置起始挤出机的温度。\n\n{1}

English:Waiting For Extruder To Heat
Translated:等待挤出机加热

English:The bed is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting bed temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}
Translated:床正在加热，其目标温度不能改变，直到达到{0}℃。 \ NN \您可以在“切片设置” - >“长丝”中设置起始床温度。\n\n{1}

English:Waiting For Bed To Heat
Translated:等待床热

English:Cancel the current print?
Translated:取消当前打印？

English:Cancel Print?
Translated:取消打印？

English:There is a recommended update avalible for MatterControl. Would you like to download it now?
Translated:有一个推荐的更新可用于MatterControl。你想现在下载吗？

English:Recommended Update Available
Translated:推荐更新可用

English:Download Now
Translated:现在下载

English:Remind Me Later
Translated:稍后提醒我

English:Oops! There is no eeprom mapping for your printer's firmware.
Translated:糟糕！打印机固件没有eeprom映射。

English:Warning no eeprom mapping
Translated:警告没有eeprom映射

English:Sample the bed at two points
Translated:在两点的床上取样

English:You should be done in about 2 minutes.
Translated:你应该在大约2分钟内完成。

English:Alert
Translated:警报

English:Input Required
Translated:输入必需

English:Apply leveling to gcode during export
Translated:在导出过程中应用调整gcode

English:File export options:
Translated:文件导出选项：

English:Report a Bug
Translated:报告错误

English:About MatterControl
Translated:关于MatterControl

English:Oops! Printer could not be detected 
Translated:糟糕！无法检测到打印机

English: Load Files
Translated: 加载文件

English: Eject SD Card
Translated: 弹出SD卡

English:Show Voxels
Translated:显示体素

English:Show Mesh
Translated:显示网格

English:Do Subtract
Translated:做减法

English:Specify if your printer has a fan.
Translated:指定您的打印机是否有风扇。

English:Specify if your printer has a heated bed.
Translated:指定您的打印机是否有加热床。

English:Specify if your printer has the ability to plug in an SD card.
Translated:指定您的打印机是否能够插入SD卡。

English:Has Fan
Translated:有风扇

English:Has Heated Bed
Translated:有加热床

English:Has SD Card Reader
Translated:有SD卡读卡器

English:Cloud Services
Translated:云服务

English:Cloud Monitoring (disabled)
Translated:云监控（禁用）

English:Cloud Monitoring (enabled)
Translated:云监控（启用）

English:First Layer Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.
Translated:第一层挤出宽度“必须小于或等于”喷嘴直径“* 4。

English:Export to SD Card
Translated:导出到SD卡

English:Notification Settings
Translated:通知设置

English:After a Print is Finished:
Translated:打印完成后：

English:Saving your settings...
Translated:保存您的设置...

English:Send an SMS notification
Translated:发送短信通知

English:Experimental
Translated:实验

English:Have MatterControl send you a text message after your print is finished
Translated:在您的打印完成后，MatterControl会向您发送一条短信

English:Your Phone Number*
Translated:你的电话号码*

English:A U.S. or Canadian mobile phone number
Translated:美国或加拿大的手机号码

English:Send an email notification
Translated:发送电子邮件通知

English:Have MatterControl send you an email message after your print is finished
Translated:在您的打印完成之后，MatterControl会向您发送一封电子邮件

English:A valid email address
Translated:有效的电子邮件地址

English:Play a Sound
Translated:播放声音

English:Play a sound after your print is finished
Translated:打印结束后播放声音

English:Printing From SD Card
Translated:从SD卡打印

English:Would you also like to remove this file from the Printer's SD Card?
Translated:您还想从打印机的SD卡中删除此文件？

English:Export to Printer SD Card
Translated:导出到打印机SD卡

English:Preparing To Send To SD Card
Translated:准备发送到SD卡

English:Sending To SD Card
Translated:发送到SD卡

English:Exporting to Folder
Translated:导出到文件夹

English:Warning GCode file
Translated:警告GCode文件

English:Release Notes
Translated:发行说明

English:More Info
Translated:更多信息

English:Go To Status
Translated:转到状态

English:View Status
Translated:查看状态

English:Description
Translated:描述

English:Value
Translated:值

English:Save To EEPROM
Translated:保存到EEPROM

English:Firmware EEPROM Settings
Translated:固件EEPROM设置

English:Save to EEPROM
Translated:保存到EEPROM

English:Select the baud rate.
Translated:选择波特率。

English:The term 'Baud Rate' roughly means the speed at which\ndata is transmitted.  Baud rates may differ from printer to\nprinter. Refer to your printer manual for more info.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain - try 250000.
Translated:术语“波特率”大致意味着数据传输的速度。波特率可能因打印机不同而不同。有关更多信息，请参阅打印机手册。 \ NN \提示：如果您不确定 - 尝试250000。

English:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a retraction can occur.
Translated:这是在发生回缩之前必须挤出的最小长丝数量。

English:Support Options
Translated:支持选项

English:If this is checked support will be allowed starting on top of internal surfaces. If it is not checked support will only be created starting at the bed.
Translated:如果这是检查支持将允许从内部表面顶部开始。如果不检查支持将只从床上开始创建。

English:Support Everywhere
Translated:支持无处不在

English:The angle the support infill will be drawn.
Translated:将绘制支撑填充物的角度。

English:Infill Angle
Translated:填充角度

English:Grid
Translated:格

English:Moves
Translated:移动

English:Retractions
Translated:撤退

English:Speeds
Translated:速度

English:Extrusion
Translated:挤压

English:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on
Translated:特别感谢Alessandro Ranellucci对他的不可思议的工作

English:Dilimleme Motoru
Translated:Dilimleme摩托车

English:Clear
Translated:明确

English:Lets the bed leveling code know if the printer can support the z axis going below 0. A printer with min z endstops or software end stops may not be able to.
Translated:如果打印机可以支持z轴低于0，可以让床位调整代码知道。具有min z endstop或软件结束的打印机可能无法使用。

English:Z Can Be Negative
Translated:Z可以是负面的

English:Export as X3G
Translated:出口为X3G

English:Select an Image
Translated:选择图像

English:If greater than 0, this is the X by Y size of a tower to use to when changing extruders
Translated:如果大于0，这是改变挤出机时使用的塔的X乘Y尺寸

English:Extruder Change
Translated:挤出机更换

English:Wipe Tower Size
Translated:擦塔大小

English:Sorry, we were unable to install the driver.
Translated:对不起，我们无法安装驱动程序。

English:Tuning Adjustment
Translated:调整调整

English:Release
Translated:发布

English:No printer is currently selected. Select a printer to edit slice settings.
Translated:目前没有打印机被选中。选择一个打印机来编辑切片设置。

English:Part Preview
Translated:部分预览

English:Layer Preview
Translated:图层预览

English:Enable Cloud Monitoring (disabled)
Translated:启用云监控（禁用）

English:Warning - Moving Too Low
Translated:警告 - 移动太低

English:Oops! Could not find this file:
Translated:糟糕！找不到此文件：

English:The number of extruders this machine has.
Translated:本机具有的挤出机数量。

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 (1.1 is a good max value) will increase the amount of filament being extruded; decreasing it (.9 is a good minimum value) will decrease the amount being extruded.
Translated:所有挤压乘以该值。增加1以上（1.1是好的最大值）将增加被挤出的长丝的数量;减少它（.9是一个很好的最小值）将减少挤出量。

English:This is the minimum speed that the printer will reduce to to make the layer take long enough to satisfy the minimum layer time.
Translated:这是打印机将减少到最小速度，使图层花费足够长的时间来满足最小层次的时间。

English:Minimum Print Speed
Translated:最小打印速度

English:Skirt and Raft
Translated:裙子和筏子

English:Length on Move
Translated:移动长度

English:Length on Tool Change
Translated:工具更换长度

English:Minimum Extrusion\nRequiring Retraction
Translated:最小拉伸\ n需要退回

English:Minimum Fan Speed
Translated:最小风扇转速

English:Extruder Count
Translated:挤出机计数

English:Hardware
Translated:硬件

English:Search Library
Translated:搜索图书馆

English:My Library
Translated:我的图书馆

English:Add to Library
Translated:添加到图书馆

English:Group
Translated:组

English:Ungroup
Translated:取消组合

English:Align...
Translated:对齐...

English:Selection
Translated:选择

English:Entering Editor
Translated:输入编辑器

English:Creating Edit Data
Translated:创建编辑数据

English:Finding Meshes
Translated:寻找网格

English:Preheat
Translated:预热

English:Extruder Temperature Override
Translated:挤出机温度覆盖

English:Bed Temperature Override
Translated:床温覆盖

English:Hardware Settings
Translated:硬件设置

English:Cloud Settings
Translated:云端设置

English:Application Settings
Translated:应用程序设置

English:Update Notification Feed
Translated:更新通知Feed

English:Pre-Release
Translated:预发行

English:Development
Translated:发展

English:Language Options
Translated:语言选项

English:Change Display Mode
Translated:更改显示模式

English:Theme/Display Options
Translated:主题/显示选项

English:Design
Translated:设计

English:Normal
Translated:正常

English:Touchscreen
Translated:触摸屏

English:Theme
Translated:主题

English:Display Options
Translated:显示选项

English:Set this if the extruders run off the same heater, if there is only one heater.
Translated:如果挤出机只有一个加热器，则将其设置为相同的加热器。

English:Share Temperature
Translated:分享温度

English:Export...
Translated:出口...

English:Temperature
Translated:温度

English:Align
Translated:对齐

English:Material 1
Translated:材料1

English:Material 2
Translated:材料2

English:'Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.
Translated:“层高”必须小于或等于“喷嘴直径”。

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Layers/Perimeters'
Translated:位置：'高级控制' - >'切片设置' - >'打印' - >'图层/周边'

English:Color {0}
Translated:颜色{0}

English:Extruder {0}
Translated:挤出机{0}

English:You can specify the extrusion with or set this to a % of the main extrusion widthe. Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation.
Translated:您可以指定挤出或将其设置为主挤出宽度的％。将其保留为0以允许自动计算。

English:Material 3
Translated:材料3

English:Material 4
Translated:材料4

English:Material 5
Translated:材料5

English:Unknown Reason
Translated:不明原因

English:Port already in use
Translated:端口已在使用

English:Unsupported Baud Rate
Translated:波特率不受支持

English:Port not found
Translated:找不到端口

English:Cancelled
Translated:取消

English:You can only connect when not currently connected.
Translated:您当前没有连接时只能连接。

English:Warning - No EEProm Mapping
Translated:警告 - 无EEProm映射

English:The speed to run the fan during the printing of the raft, 0 will leave the fan off.
Translated:打印筏时运行风扇的速度为0会使风扇关闭。

English:The speed to print the layers of the raft (other than the first layer). This can be set explicitly or as a  percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:打印木筏层的速度（第一层除外）。这可以明确设置，也可以设置为“填充速度”的百分比。

English:Preparing Meshes
Translated:准备网格

English:Grouping Meshes
Translated:分组网格

English:No COM ports available
Translated:没有COM端口可用

English:Stable
Translated:稳定

English:Beta
Translated:测试版

English:Alpha
Translated:Α

English:Ungrouping
Translated:取消分组

English:Grouping
Translated:分组

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the print.
Translated:警告：断开连接将取消打印。

English:The amount the infill edge will push into the perimeter. Helps ensure the infill is connected to the edge.
Translated:填充边缘将推入周界的量。有助于确保填充物连接到边缘。

English:This is the diameter of your extruder nozzle.
Translated:这是挤出机喷嘴的直径。

English:Sometime a mesh will not have closed a perimeter. When this is checked these non-closed perimeters while be closed.
Translated:有时网格不会封闭一个周边。当这些非闭合的周边被关闭时被检查。

English:You can specify the extrusion with or set this to a % of the main extrusion width. Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation.
Translated:您可以使用或将其设置为主挤出宽度的％来指定挤出。将其保留为0以允许自动计算。

English:The default temperature to set the extruder to. Can sometimes be overridden on the first layer.
Translated:设定挤出机的默认温度。有时可以在第一层覆盖。

English:If greater than 0, this is the distance away from parts to create a perimeter to wipe when entering.
Translated:如果大于0，这是距离零件的距离，以便在进入时创建周边擦拭。

English:Please Confirm
Translated:请确认

English:Reset to Factory Defaults
Translated:重置为出厂默认值

English:Save to EEProm
Translated:保存到EEProm

English:{0} is not available
Translated:{0}不可用

English:Invalid printer response
Translated:打印机响应无效

English:Could not find a selected button.
Translated:找不到所选按钮。

English:Aligning
Translated:对齐

English:Single
Translated:单

English:Warning - GCode file
Translated:警告 -  GCode文件

English:The index of the extruder to use for the raft. Setting this to 0 will use the support extruder index.
Translated:用于筏子的挤出机的指数。将此设置为0将使用支持挤出机索引。

English:Raft Extruder
Translated:筏式挤出机

English:None
Translated:没有

English:Rectangle
Translated:长方形

English:Outline
Translated:大纲

English:Circle
Translated:圈

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nGCode files tell your printer exactly what to do.  They are not modified by SliceSettings and may not be appropriate for your specific printer configuration.\n\nOnly print from GCode files if you know they mach your current printer and configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:您尝试打印的文件是GCode文件。\n\nGCode文件告诉您的打印机要做什么。它们不被SliceSettings修改，可能不适合您的特定打印机配置。 \ NN \只有在您知道当前打印机和配置的情况下，才能从GCode文件打印。 \ NN \您确定要打印此GCode文件吗？

English:Do not show this message again
Translated:不要再显示此消息

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nIt is recommendended that you only print Gcode files known to match your printer's configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:您尝试打印的文件是GCode文件。 \ NN \建议您只打印已知与您的打印机配置相匹配的Gcode文件。 \ NN \您确定要打印此GCode文件吗？

English:Cannot find this file\nWould you like to remove it from the queue?
Translated:找不到此文件\ n是否要将其从队列中删除？

English:Supported Angles
Translated:支持角度

English:Amount
Translated:量

English:Settings
Translated:设置

English:Unsaved Changes
Translated:未保存的更改

English:No printer is currently selected. Please select a printer to edit slice settings.
Translated:目前没有打印机被选中。请选择一个打印机来编辑切片设置。

English:NOTE: You need to select a printer, but do not need to connect to it.
Translated:注意：您需要选择打印机，但不需要连接到打印机。

English:Simple
Translated:简单

English:Intermediate
Translated:中间

English:The default temperature to set the bed to. Can sometimes be overridden on the first layer. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:将床设置为默认温度。有时可以在第一层覆盖。设置为0以消除床温命令。

English:Turns on and off the creation of a raft which can help parts adhere to the bed.
Translated:打开和关闭可以帮助零件粘附在床上的木筏的创建。

English:Options  
Translated:选项

English:Expand Distance
Translated:展开距离

English:Insert
Translated:插

English:Restore
Translated:恢复

English:WINDOWED MODE: This tab has been moved to a separate window.
Translated:WINDOWED MODE：此选项卡已移至单独的窗口。

English:Sending File(s)...
Translated:发送文件...

English:Slicing File(s)...
Translated:切片文件...

English:Edit Outline
Translated:编辑大纲

English:Use Alpha
Translated:使用阿尔法

English:Start Threshold:
Translated:开始阈值：

English:End Threshold:
Translated:结束阈值：

English:Edit Model
Translated:编辑模型

English:Invert
Translated:倒置

English:Size:
Translated:尺寸：

English:Height:
Translated:高度：

English:Edit Base
Translated:编辑基地

English:Infill:
Translated:填充：

English:Unlock to Save
Translated:解锁保存

English:Save & Exit
Translated:保存并退出

English:Finding Parts:
Translated:查找零件：

English:Add Image
Translated:添加图片

English:Search Google
Translated:搜索Google

English:Word Edit
Translated:字编辑

English:Spacing:
Translated:间距：

English:Underline
Translated:强调

English:Rotation:
Translated:回转：

English:Enter Text Here
Translated:在此输入文字

English:Inserting image...
Translated:插入图片...

English:Completed Prints:
Translated:完成的打印：

English:Total Print Time:
Translated:总打印时间：

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Speed'
Translated:位置：'高级控制' - >'切片设置' - >'打印' - >'速度'

English:The '{0}' must be greater than 0.
Translated:“{0}”必须大于0。

English:It is currently set to {0}.
Translated:它目前设置为{0}。

English:Slice Error
Translated:切片错误

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Filament' -> 'Retraction'
Translated:位置：'高级控制' - >'切片设置' - >'灯丝' - >'灯丝' - >'退缩'

English:Save Slice Configuration
Translated:保存切片配置

English:Printing: {0}
Translated:打印：{0}

English:Finished Print: {0}
Translated:完成打印：{0}

English:Smaller numbers create less support. Larger numbers create more support. Starting at 0, the angles from the bed that requires support.
Translated:较小的数字减少支持。更大的数字创造更多的支持。从0开始，从需要支撑的床的角度。

English:Preview
Translated:预习

English:Send Test
Translated:发送测试

English:NOTE: Standard messaging rates may apply.
Translated:注意：标准消息传递速率可能适用。

English:Include a picture of my finished print
Translated:包括我完成打印的照片

English:Send to Remote Device
Translated:发送到远程设备

English:Slice Files Prior to Send
Translated:发送之前的切片文件

English:Please wait. Retrieving available devices...
Translated:请稍候。检索可用设备...

English:Token request failed...
Translated:令牌请求失败...

English:Oops! Your session has expired.  Please sign-in again to continue.
Translated:糟糕！您的会话已过期请重新登录以继续。

English:Sorry! Unable to connect to server. Please try again later.
Translated:抱歉!无法连接到服务器。请稍后再试。

English:All done! Files have been sent.
Translated:全做完了！文件已发送。

English:Retry
Translated:重试

English:Please wait. Preparing to send...
Translated:请稍候。准备发送...

English:Token received...
Translated:令牌收到...

English:Please wait. Sending files...
Translated:请稍候。正在发送文件...

English:File too big to load.
Translated:文件太大，无法加载。

English:Specify if your printer has the ability to do print leveling directly (support for G29).
Translated:指定您的打印机是否能够直接进行打印调平（支持G29）。

English:Has Hardware Leveling
Translated:有硬件调平

English:The Fill Density must be between 0 and 1 inclusive.
Translated:填充密度必须介于0和1之间。

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Infill'
Translated:位置：'高级控制' - >'切片设置' - >'打印' - >'填充'

English:Inserting Text
Translated:插入文本

English:Saving Parts:
Translated:保存零件：

English:Reset Connection
Translated:重置连接

English:Reboots the firmware on the controller
Translated:重新启动控制器上的固件

English:Please wait. Slicing files {0} of {1}
Translated:请稍候。切片{0} {1}

English:Normally while printing the printer will home before heating the extruder(s). Set this to cause the heating to happen before the homing. This can help with printers that touch the bed while homing.
Translated:打印机打印机通常在加热挤出机之前将回家。将其设置为导致加热在归位之前发生。这可以帮助打印机触摸床而归位。

English:Heat Before Homing
Translated:回归之前的热

English:Clear Print History
Translated:清除打印历史记录

English:This gcode will be inserted into the output right after the temperature setting. If you have the commands to set temperature in this section they will not be generated outside of this section. You can also include values from other settings such as [temperature].
Translated:温度设置后，此gcode将被插入输出。如果您有本节中设置温度的命令，则不会在本节之外生成。您还可以包括其他设置的值，例如[temperature]。

English:GCode file too big to load for '{0}'.
Translated:GCode文件太大，无法加载“{0}”。

English:Reset\nConnection
Translated:重置\ n连接

English:Show Reset Connection
Translated:显示重置连接

English:Makes visible a button that will reset the connection when pressed. This can be used on printers that support it as an emergency stop.
Translated:显示一个按钮，当按下时将重置连接。这可以在支持它作为紧急停止的打印机上使用。

English:You may need to wait a minute for your printer to finish initializing.
Translated:您可能需要等待一分钟才能使您的打印机完成初始化。

English: Export to Folder or SD Card
Translated: 导出到文件夹或SD卡

English:Converting image...
Translated:转换图片...

English:Add To Library
Translated:添加到图书馆

English:Print Queue
Translated:打印队列

English:Interface Mode
Translated:接口模式

English:Standard
Translated:标准

English:Connect to the printer
Translated:连接到打印机

English:Reset
Translated:重启

English:Console
Translated:安慰

English:On
Translated:上

English:Off
Translated:关闭

English:How many layers, or the distance, that will be solid filled on the bottom surfaces of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:在物体的底部表面上将固体填充多少层或距离。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定距离。

English:The number of layers, or the distance, to print between the supports and the part. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:在支撑件和零件之间打印的层数或距离。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定距离。

English:The number of layers, or the distance, to skip between the support and the model. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:在支持和模型之间跳过的层数或距离。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定距离。

English:How many layers, or the distance, that will be solid filled on the top surfaces of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:在物体的顶部表面上将固体填充多少层或距离。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定距离。

English:Top Solid Layers:
Translated:顶层实体层：

English:Bottom Solid Layers:
Translated:底部实体层：

English:This will cause the extruder to try to wipe itself after retracting to minimize strings.
Translated:这将导致挤出机在收缩后尝试自己擦拭以最小化弦线。

English:Calculating Positions...
Translated:计算位置...

English:ATX Power Control
Translated:ATX电源控制

English:Specify if your printer can control the power supply
Translated:指定打印机是否可以控制电源

English:Has Power Control
Translated:具有电源控制

English:The temperature the bed temperature will be set to when part is to be removed.
Translated:当部件被去除时，床温将被设置为温度。

English:Extruder Wipe Temperature
Translated:挤出机擦拭温度

English:Bed Remove Part Temperature
Translated:床去除部分温度

English:The temperature the extruder will be when extruder wipes.
Translated:当挤出机擦拭时挤出机的温度。

English:The temperature the extruder will be when extruder wipes.
Translated:当挤出机擦拭时挤出机的温度。

English:Basic
Translated:基本的

English:Sets the size of the outer solid surface for the entire print.
Translated:设置整个打印的外部实体表面的大小。

English:The number, or total width, of external shells to create. Add mm to the end of the number to specify width.
Translated:要创建的外壳的数量或总宽度。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定宽度。

English:Layers/Surface
Translated:层/表面

English:Width
Translated:宽度

English:Arrange
Translated:安排

English:The speed to move while printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage it will modify the corresponding speed set above.
Translated:打印第一层时移动的速度。如果以百分比表示，它将修改上面设置的相应速度。

English:This gcode will sent to the printer immediately after connecting. It can be used to set settings specific to a given printer.
Translated:连接后，gcode将立即发送到打印机。它可用于设置特定于给定打印机的设置。

English:Features
Translated:特征

English:Update Available
Translated:更新可用

English:Check For Update
Translated:检查更新

English:solid_shell
Translated:solid_shell

English:GCode file too big to preview ({0}).
Translated:GCode文件太大，无法预览（{0}）。

English:Up to Date
Translated:最新

English:Checking For Update
Translated:检查更新

English:Loading Parts...
Translated:装载零件...

English:More
Translated:更多

English:Share
Translated:分享

English:WARNING: Write Failed!
Translated:警告：写入失败！

English:Can't access '{0}'.
Translated:无法访问“{0}”。

English:Oops! Unable to save changes.
Translated:糟糕！无法保存更改。

English:Unable to save
Translated:无法保存

English:Terminal
Translated:终奌站

English:Settings\n& Controls
Translated:设置\ n和控件

English:Print Area
Translated:打印区域

English:First Layer Extrusion Width = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}
Translated:第一层挤出宽度= {0} \ n喷嘴直径= {1}

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Advanced' -> 'Frist Layer'
Translated:位置：'高级控制' - >'切片设置' - >'打印' - >'高级' - >'手腕层'

English:First Layer Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.
Translated:第一层挤出宽度“必须大于0。

English:First Layer Extrusion Width = {0}
Translated:第一层挤出宽度= {0}

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Speed'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'通用' - >'速度'

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Filament' -> 'Retraction'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'灯丝' - >'灯丝' - >'退缩'

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'Frist Layer'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'灯丝' - >'挤出' - >'手腕层'

English:Open
Translated:打开

English:Checking For Update...
Translated:检查更新...

English:Create Folder
Translated:创建文件夹

English:Redeem
Translated:赎回

English:First Layer Height = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}
Translated:第一层高度= {0} \ n喷嘴直径= {1}

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Layers/Surface'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'常规' - >'图层/表面'

English:Create New Folder:
Translated:创建新文件夹：

English:Folder Name
Translated:文件夹名称

English:Enter a Folder Name Here
Translated:在此输入文件夹名称

English:Save New Design to Queue
Translated:将新设计保存到队列

English:Design Name
Translated:设计名称

English:Enter the name of your design.
Translated:输入您的设计名称。

English:Enter a Design Name Here
Translated:在这里输入设计名称

English:Also save to Library
Translated:也保存到图书馆

English:Home
Translated:家

English:The collection you are trying to delete '{0}' is not empty. Would you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:您要删除“{0}”的集合不为空。你想删除它吗？

English:Collection not Empty
Translated:收藏不空

English:Do NOT Delete
Translated:不要删除

English:Library (cloud)
Translated:图书馆（云）

English:Purchased
Translated:已购买

English:Session Expired
Translated:会话已过期

English:Thumbnail Rendering
Translated:缩略图呈现

English:Flat
Translated:平面

English:3D
Translated:3D

English:Update Status
Translated:更新状态

English:The folder you are trying to delete '{0}' is not empty. Would you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:您尝试删除“{0}”的文件夹不为空。你想删除它吗？

English:Folder not Empty
Translated:文件夹不空

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:文件夹“{0}”不为空。 \ n是否要删除？

English:Delete folder?
Translated:删除文件夹？

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:文件夹“{0}”不为空。 \ NN \你想删除它吗？

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:文件夹“{0}”不为空。 \ NN \你想删除它吗？

English:Delete folder?
Translated:删除文件夹？

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:文件夹“{0}”不为空。 \ NN \你想删除它吗？

English:Delete folder?
Translated:删除文件夹？

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:文件夹“{0}”不为空。 \ NN \你想删除它吗？

English:Delete folder?
Translated:删除文件夹？

English:Cloud Library
Translated:云图书馆

English:Rename
Translated:改名

English:Rename Item:
Translated:重命名项目：

English:New Name
Translated:新名称

English:Enter New Name Here
Translated:在这里输入新的名字

English:The speed to print the visible outside edges. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Inside Perimeters speed.
Translated:打印可见外边缘的速度。这可以明确设置或以内部周边速度的百分比设置。

English:Save New Design
Translated:节省新设计

English:Save Location
Translated:保存位置

English:Choose the location to save to.
Translated:选择要保存的位置。

English:Sample the bed at seven points
Translated:在七点取样床

English:You should be done in about 5 minutes.
Translated:你应该在约5分钟内完成。

English:The print leveling alogrithm to use.
Translated:打印调平算法使用。

English:The print leveling sampling mothod to use.
Translated:打印调平取样方法使用。

English:This gcode will be run prior to starting bed probing.
Translated:这个gcode将在开始床探测之前运行。

English:This gcode will be run after finishing bed probing.
Translated:这个gcode将在完成床探测后运行。

English:The width of the paper (or other calibration device) used when doing manual bed probing.
Translated:手动探测时使用的纸张（或其他校准装置）的宽度。

English:The offset of the probe relative to the extruder.
Translated:探针相对于挤出机的偏移。

English:The z offset of the probe relative to the extruder.
Translated:探针相对于挤出机的z偏移。

English:Print Leveling
Translated:打印调平

English:Leveling Solution
Translated:调平解决方案

English:Leveling Method
Translated:调平方法

English:Manual Probe Paper Width
Translated:手动探头纸张宽度

English:Probe Offset
Translated:探头偏移

English:Probe Z Offset
Translated:探头Z偏移

English:There is a recommended update available for MatterControl. Would you like to download it now?
Translated:有一个推荐的更新可用于MatterControl。你想现在下载吗？

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nIt is recommended that you only print Gcode files known to match your printer's configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:您尝试打印的文件是GCode文件。 \ NN \建议您只打印已知与您的打印机配置相匹配的Gcode文件。 \ NN \您确定要打印此GCode文件吗？

English:This printer requires print leveling to run correctly.
Translated:此打印机要求打印调整正常运行。

English:Require Leveling To Print
Translated:需要调平打印

English:Oops! You cannot restart while a print is active.
Translated:糟糕！打印有效时无法重新启动。

English:Unable to restart
Translated:无法重启

English:Add File To Queue
Translated:添加文件到队列

English:Add Folder To Library
Translated:将文件夹添加到库

English:Using the above controls
Translated:使用上述控件

English:Add Local Folder To Library
Translated:将本地文件夹添加到库

English:Redeem Design Code
Translated:兑换设计代码

English:You should be done in about 6 minutes.
Translated:你应该在大约6分钟内完成。

English:Enter Share Code
Translated:输入共享代码

English:Downloading...
Translated:正在下载...

English:Uploading...
Translated:正在上传...

English:Click to show in 3D View
Translated:点击在3D视图中显示

English:Enter Mulit Select mode
Translated:输入Mulit Select模式

English:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File To The Queue
Translated:将.stl，.amf，.gcode或.zip文件添加到队列中

English:Choose a Create Tool to generate custom parts
Translated:选择一个创建工具来生成自定义零件

English:Switch to Setings and Manual Controls pannel
Translated:切换到设置和手动控制pannel

English:Pop This Tab out into its own Window
Translated:将此选项卡弹出到自己的窗口中

English:Preview layer Tool Paths
Translated:预览图层工具路径

English:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File to the Queue
Translated:将.stl，.amf，.gcode或.zip文件添加到队列

English:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File to the Bed
Translated:将.stl，.amf，.gcode或.zip文件添加到床上

English:Add an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file to the Queue
Translated:将.stl，.amf，.gcode或.zip文件添加到队列中

English:Insert an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file
Translated:插入.stl，.amf，.gcode或.zip文件

English:Bring the Window back into this Tab
Translated:将窗口带回此选项卡

English:Insert an .stl, .amf or .zip file
Translated:插入.stl，.amf或.zip文件

English:Update Channel
Translated:更新频道

English:Current Build : Test Build
Translated:当前构建：测试构建

English:Stable: The current release version of MatterControl (recommended).
Translated:稳定：当前版本的MatterControl（推荐）。

English:Beta: The release candidate version of MatterControl.
Translated:Beta：MatterControl的发布候选版本。

English:Alpha: The in development version of MatterControl.
Translated:Alpha：MatterControl的开发版本。

English:Choose a Create Tool to generate custom designs
Translated:选择一个创建工具来生成自定义设计

English:Switch to Settings, Controls and Options
Translated:切换到设置，控件和选项

English:Switch to Queue, Library and History
Translated:切换到队列，图书馆和历史

English:Sign in to your MatterControl account
Translated:登录您的MatterControl帐户

English:Connect to the currently selected printer
Translated:连接到当前选择的打印机

English:Disconnect from current printer
Translated:断开当前打印机

English:Select a printer
Translated:选择打印机

English:Current extruder temperature
Translated:当前挤出机温度

English:Preheat the Extruder
Translated:预热挤出机

English:Current bed temperature
Translated:当前床温

English:Preheat the Bed
Translated:预热床

English:Shop online for printing materials
Translated:在线购买打印材料

English:Add an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file to the Library
Translated:将.stl，.amf，.gcode或.zip文件添加到库中

English:Open your dashboard in a web browser
Translated:在网络浏览器中打开您的仪表板

English:Sign out of your MatterControl account
Translated:退出您的MatterControl帐户

English:Add a new Printer Profile
Translated:添加新的打印机配置文件

English:Rotate (Ctrl + L. Mouse)
Translated:旋转（Ctrl + L.鼠标）

English:Move (Shift + L. Mouse)
Translated:移动（Shift + L.鼠标）

English:Zoom (Alt + L. Mouse)
Translated:缩放（Alt + L.鼠标）

English:Select Part
Translated:选择零件

English:Move
Translated:移动

English:Zoom
Translated:放大

English:Preview 3D Design
Translated:预览3D设计

English:Rotate (Alt + L. Mouse)
Translated:旋转（Alt + L.鼠标）

English:Zoom (Ctrl + L. Mouse)
Translated:缩放（Ctrl + L.鼠标）

English:Enter Multi Select mode
Translated:进入多重选择模式

English:Print leveling is enabled.
Translated:打印调平启用。

English:Edit notification settings
Translated:编辑通知设置

English:Rotate (Alt + Left Mouse)
Translated:旋转（Alt +鼠标左键）

English:Move (Shift + Left Mouse)
Translated:移动（Shift +鼠标左键）

English:Zoom (Ctrl + Left Mouse)
Translated:缩放（Ctrl +鼠标左键）

English:Search Results
Translated:搜索结果

English:Slice files prior to send
Translated:发送之前的切片文件

English:Oops! Please sign in to continue.
Translated:糟糕！请登录以继续。

English:Login Required
Translated:需要登录

English:Rebuild Thumbnails Now
Translated:重建缩略图

English:You are switching to a different thumbnail rendering mode. If you want, your current thumbnails can be removed and recreated in the new style. You can switch back and forth at any time. There will be some processing overhead while the new thumbnails are created.\n\nDo you want to rebuild your existing thumbnails now?
Translated:您正在切换到不同的缩略图呈现模式。如果需要，您当前的缩略图可以删除，并以新样式重新创建。您可以随时来回切换。在创建新的缩略图时会有一些处理开销。 \ NN \现在要重建现有的缩略图吗？

English:Loading...
Translated:正在加载...

English:Wrapping:
Translated:包装：

English:Use Braille
Translated:使用盲文

English:Only Braille
Translated:只有盲文

English:Retrieving Contents...
Translated:检索内容...

English:Cloud Sync
Translated:云同步

English:Include Text
Translated:包含文本

English:Show normal text under the braille
Translated:在盲文下显示普通文字

English:Use Grade 2
Translated:使用2级

English:Experimental support for Braille grade 2 (contractions)
Translated:盲文2级（收缩）的实验支持

English:About Braille
Translated:关于盲文

English:Add a new Material Preset
Translated:添加新的物料预设

English:Import an existing Material Preset
Translated:导入现有的材料预设

English:Share Library Item
Translated:共享库项目

English:Share Options
Translated:股票期权

English:Your Share Code:
Translated:您的分享代码：

English:Anyone with this code will have access
Translated:任何具有此代码的人都可以访问

English:Share with someone
Translated:与某人分享

English:read-only
Translated:只读

English:Generate Share Code
Translated:生成共享代码

English:Please wait. Retrieving share code...
Translated:请稍候。正在检索共享代码...

English:Provide this code to grant someone read-only access.
Translated:提供此代码授予某人只读访问权限。

English:Please wait. Sending invite...
Translated:请稍候。发送邀请...

English:Invite sent!
Translated:邀请发送！

English:Your invite has been sent!
Translated:您的邀请已发送！

English:Enter Share Code:
Translated:输入分享代码：

English:This code to will provide read-only access.
Translated:这个代码将提供只读访问。

English:Please wait. Redeeming code...
Translated:请稍候。兑换代码...

English:Oops! Invalid code.
Translated:糟糕！无效的代码。

English:Your code has been redeemed.  Please check the Library.
Translated:您的代码已被兑换请检查图书馆。

English:Shared with Me
Translated:与我分享

English:Share designs from your Cloud Library
Translated:从您的云图库共享设计

English:Exporting to Folder or SD Card
Translated:导出到文件夹或SD卡

English:Materials
Translated:材料

English:Material {0}
Translated:材料{0}

English:Redeem Purchase
Translated:兑换购买

English:Oops! Please sign in to enable this feature.
Translated:糟糕！请登录以启用此功能。

English:Rebuild
Translated:重建

English:Outside Perimeters
Translated:外围

English:Sample the bed at {0} points
Translated:在{0}分的位置取样床

English:Software Print Leveling (disabled)
Translated:软件打印调平（禁用）

English:Calibration Settings
Translated:校准设置

English:Software Print Leveling (enabled)
Translated:软件打印调平（启用）

English:Layer Height = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}
Translated:层高= {0} \ n喷嘴直径= {1}

English:Solid Infill works best when set tu LINES.
Translated:固体填充在设置tu LINES时效果最好。

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Infill Type'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'通用' - >'填充类型'

English:Show normal text above the braille
Translated:在盲文上方显示正常文字

English:The image file you have attempted to load is invalid or has no data. Please check the file or try another image.
Translated:您尝试加载的映像文件无效或没有数据。请检查文件或尝试其他图像。

English:Could Not Load Image File
Translated:无法加载图像文件

English:Reset View
Translated:重置视图

English:If you want to select a layer to pause your print on do so here (for changing filament)
Translated:如果要在此处选择一个图层来暂停打印（换丝）

English:Select Layer To Pause:
Translated:选择层到暂停：

English:Offset:
Translated:抵消：

English:The speed to move while printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage the above Infill speed is modified.
Translated:打印第一层时移动的速度。如果以百分比表示，则上述填充速度被修改。

English:The distance between the interface of support and the part. A good value is typically about 1/2 your extrusion diameter. So, between 0.0 and .2 for a .4 nozzle.
Translated:支撑接口与零件之间的距离。一个很好的值通常是挤出直径的1/2。因此，对于.4喷嘴，在0.0和.2之间。

English:Distance From Object
Translated:距物体距离

English:Maximum Fan Speed
Translated:最大风扇转速

English:The amount that the filament will be reversed before each qualifying non-printing move.
Translated:在每次合格的非打印移动之前灯丝将被反转的量。

English:Wipe After Retract
Translated:回缩后擦拭

English:Print Bed
Translated:打印床

English:Transparent
Translated:透明

English:Canceled
Translated:取消

English:Your printer is reporting a hardware Error. This may prevent your printer from functioning properly.
Translated:您的打印机报告硬件错误。这可能会阻止打印机正常工作。

English:Error Reported
Translated:报告错误

English:Printer Hardware Error
Translated:打印机硬件错误

English:Error Loading Contents
Translated:加载内容时出错

English:Temporarily override target temperature
Translated:临时覆盖目标温度

English:CHANGE
Translated:更改

English:REVERT
Translated:还原

English:UPDATE
Translated:更新

English:Oops! Could not complete update.
Translated:糟糕！无法完成更新。

English:Connect your printer to check for firmware updates.
Translated:连接打印机以检查固件更新。

English:Fine
Translated:精细

English:Coarse
Translated:粗

English:Outer Surface - Perimeters
Translated:外表面 - 周长

English:Outer Surface - Top & Bottom
Translated:外表 - 顶部和底部

English:Light
Translated:光

English:Heavy
Translated:重

English:Speed for Infill
Translated:填充速度

English:Speed for Perimeters
Translated:周长速度

English:Speeds for Other Printing
Translated:其他印刷速度

English:Speed for Non-Print Moves
Translated:非打印移动的速度

English:Touching
Translated:接触

English:Far
Translated:远

English:Machine Settings
Translated:机器设置

English:Probe Settings
Translated:探头设置

English:On Connect G-Code
Translated:连接G代码

English:sign in
Translated:签到

English:Log into my account
Translated:登录我的帐户

English:Login
Translated:登录

English:Username or Email
Translated:用户名或电子邮件

English:Enter your username or email address
Translated:输入您的用户名或电子邮件地址

English:Password
Translated:密码

English:Forgot Password
Translated:忘记密码

English:Enter your password
Translated:输入您的密码

English:New User? 
Translated:新用户？

English:Create An Account
Translated:创建一个帐户

English:Please wait. Signing in...
Translated:请稍候。登录中...

English:Extruder Temperatures
Translated:挤出机温度

English:Bed Temperatures
Translated:床温

English:Waiting for device to connect...
Translated:正在等待设备连接...

English:Detecting device firmware...
Translated:检测设备固件...

English:Detecting target firmware...
Translated:检测目标固件...

English:The amount of support to generate.
Translated:生成的支持量。

English:Support Percent
Translated:支持百分比

English:Allow Negative Z
Translated:允许负Z

English:Offset: 
Translated:抵消：

English:Are you sure you want to abort the current print and close MatterControl?
Translated:您确定要中止当前打印并关闭MatterControl吗？

English:Abort Print
Translated:中止打印

English:mm / minute
Translated:毫米/分钟

English:Attempts to avoid having the perimeter line cross over existing perimeter lines. This can help with oozing or strings.
Translated:试图避免使外围线与现有的外围线交叉。这可以帮助渗透或字符串。

English:The X and Y values of the size of the print bed, in millimeters. For printers with a circular bed, these values are the diameters on the X and Y axes.
Translated:打印床尺寸的X和Y值，单位为毫米。对于带有圆床的打印机，这些值是X轴和Y轴上的直径。

English:The temperature to which the bed will be set for the duration of the print. Set to 0 to disable.
Translated:在打印期间床将被设置的温度。设置为0以禁用。

English:The amount to remove from the bottom of the model, in millimeters.
Translated:从模型底部移除的量，以毫米为单位。

English:The number of layers or the distance in millimeters to solid fill on the bottom surface(s) of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance in millimeters.
Translated:层的数量或物体的底面上以毫米为单位的实心填充距离。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定以毫米为单位的距离。

English:The speed at which the layer cooling fan will run when bridging, expressed as a percentage of full power.
Translated:桥接时层冷却风扇运行的速度，以全功率的百分比表示。

English:The speed at which bridging between walls will print.
Translated:墙壁之间桥接的速度将打印。

English:The amount of brim that will be drawn around each object, in millimeters. This can be useful to ensure that parts stay affixed to the bed.
Translated:围绕每个物体的边缘的数量，以毫米为单位。这可以有助于确保部件保持固定在床上。

English:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Primarily controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.
Translated:打印机可打印卷的高度，单位为毫米。主要控制3D视图中显示的视觉打印区域的高度。

English:G-Code to run when a print is canceled.
Translated:G代码在打印被取消时运行。

English:Centers the print on the bed, regardless of where it is moved in Edit Mode. Disable to allow printing a model anywhere on the bed.
Translated:将打印放在床上，无论在编辑模式下移动的位置。禁用以允许在床上的任何地方打印模型。

English:G-Code to run upon successful connection to a printer. This can be useful to set settings specific to a given printer.
Translated:成功连接打印机后运行G代码。这可以用于设置特定于给定打印机的设置。

English:Creates a raft under the printed part. Useful to prevent warping when printing ABS (and other warping-prone plastics) as it helps parts adhere to the bed.
Translated:在打印部分下方创建木筏。当打印ABS（和其他易翘曲的塑料）时，防止翘曲变形，因为它有助于零件粘附在床上。

English:The extra distance the raft will extend around the edge of the part.
Translated:木筏将围绕零件的边缘延伸的额外距离。

English:The distance between the first layer and the top of the raft. A good value is typically about half the extrusion diameter. For a 0.4 mm nozzle, a value between 0.0 and 0.2 would be best.
Translated:筏子的第一层和顶部之间的距离。一个很好的值通常是挤出直径的一半左右。对于0.4 mm喷嘴，0.0和0.2之间的值最好。

English:The speed at which the cooling fan(s) will run during the printing of the raft, expressed as a percentage of full power.
Translated:冷却风扇在打印筏时运行的速度，以全功率的百分比表示。

English:The speed at which the layers of the raft (other than the first layer) will print. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:木筏层（不同于第一层）将打印的速度。这可以明确设置，也可以设置为“填充速度”的百分比。

English:The number of layers for which the layer cooling fan will be forced off at the start of the print.
Translated:在打印开始时，层冷却风扇将被强制关闭的层数。

English:G-Code to be run at the end of all automatic output (the very end of the G-Code commands).
Translated:G代码在所有自动输出结束时运行（G代码命令的最后）。

English:The speed at which outside, (visible) perimeters will print.
Translated:外部（可见）周边的速度将打印。

English:Forces external perimeters to be printed first. By default, they will print last.
Translated:强制外围打印首先打印。默认情况下，它们将最后打印。

English:The number of extruders the printer has.
Translated:打印机的挤出机数量。

English:Indicate that the extruders share a common heater cartridge.
Translated:表明挤出机共用一个共同的加热器筒。

English:Forces the printer to heat the nozzle before homing.
Translated:迫使打印机在归位之前加热喷嘴。

English:This is the identifier used in the G-Code to specify the extruder.
Translated:这是G代码中用于指定挤出机的标识符。

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1  will increase the amount of filament being extruded (1.1 is a good max value); decreasing it will decrease the amount being extruded (.9 is a good minimum value).
Translated:所有挤压乘以该值。将其增加到1以上将增加被挤出的长丝的数量（1.1是一个很好的最大值）;减少它将减少挤出量（.9是一个很好的最小值）。

English:The actual diameter of the filament used for printing.
Translated:用于印刷的细丝的实际直径。

English:The angle of the infill, measured from the X axis. Not used when bridging.
Translated:从X轴测量的填充物的角度。桥接时不使用。

English:The amount of infill material to generate, expressed as a ratio or a percentage.
Translated:填充材料的产生量，以比例或百分比表示。

English:The geometric shape of the support structure for the inside of parts.
Translated:部件内部的支撑结构的几何形状。

English:Acceleration to use while printing the first layer. Set to 0 to use the default first layer acceleration.
Translated:在打印第一层时加速使用。设置为0以使用默认的第一层加速。

English:The height of the first layer. A first layer taller than the default layer height can sometimes be used to improve adhesion to the build plate.
Translated:第一层的高度。有时可以使用比默认层高度高的第一层来提高与建筑板的粘合力。

English:The speed at which the nozzle will move when printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage the Infill speed is modified.
Translated:打印第一层时喷嘴移动的速度。如果以百分比表示，则填充速度被修改。

English:Include detailed comments in the G-Code.
Translated:在G-Code中包含详细的意见。

English:The version of G-Code the printer's firmware communicates with. Some firmware use different G and M codes. Setting this ensures that the output G-Code will use the correct commands.
Translated:打印机固件与G-Code进行通信的版本。某些固件使用不同的G和M代码。设置此项可确保输出G代码将使用正确的命令。

English:The printer has a layer-cooling fan.
Translated:打印机有一个层冷却风扇。

English:The printer has its own auto bed leveling probe and procedure which can be called using a G29 command during Start G-Code.
Translated:打印机具有自己的自动调平探头和程序，可以在启动G代码期间使用G29命令调用。

English:The printer has a heated bed.
Translated:打印机有一个加热床。

English:The printer has the ability to control the power supply. Enable this function to show the ATX Power Control section on the Control pane.
Translated:打印机能够控制电源。启用此功能以显示“控制”窗格中的“ATX电源控制”部分。

English:The printer has a SD card reader.
Translated:打印机有一个SD卡读卡器。

English:Shows a button at the right side of the Printer Connection Bar used to reset the USB connection to the printer. This can be used on printers that support it as an emergency stop.
Translated:显示打印机连接栏右侧的按钮，用于重置与打印机的USB连接。这可以在支持它作为紧急停止的打印机上使用。

English:Acceleration to use when printing infill. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:打印填充时加速使用。设置为0可禁用更改打印机的加速度。

English:The speed at which infill will print.
Translated:填充印刷速度。

English:The print leveling algorithm to use.
Translated:打印调平算法使用。

English:The printer requires print leveling to run correctly.
Translated:打印机需要打印调平才能正常运行。

English:The print leveling sampling method to use.
Translated:打印调平采样方法使用。

English:The thickness of the paper (or other calibration device) used to perform manual bed probe.
Translated:用于执行手动床探头的纸张（或其他校准装置）的厚度。

English:G-Code to be run after the change in Z height for the next layer.
Translated:G代码在下一层的Z高度更改后运行。

English:The height of each layer of the print, except the first. A smaller number will create more layers and more vertical accuracy but also a slower print.
Translated:打印的每一层的高度，除了第一个。较小的数字将创建更多的层次和更多的垂直精度，但也会减慢打印。

English:Sets the size of the outer solid surface (perimeter) for the entire print.
Translated:设置整个打印的外部固体表面（周长）的大小。

English:The maximum speed at which the layer cooling fan will run, expressed as a percentage of full power.
Translated:层冷却风扇运行的最大速度，以全功率的百分比表示。

English:The minimum length of filament that must be extruded before a retraction can occur.
Translated:在退回之前必须挤出的细丝的最小长度可能发生。

English:The minimum speed at which the layer cooling fan will run, expressed as a percentage of full power.
Translated:层冷却风扇运行的最小速度，以全功率的百分比表示。

English:The minimum speed to which the printer will reduce to in order to attempt to make the layer print time long enough to satisfy the minimum layer time.
Translated:为了使图层打印时间足够长以满足最小层次时间，打印机将降低到最小速度。

English:The minimum length of filament to use printing the skirt loops. Enough skirt loops will be drawn to use this amount of filament, overriding the value set in Loops if the value in Loops will produce a skirt shorter than this value.
Translated:使用丝线的最小长度打印裙部环。如果循环中的值会产生比该值短的裙子，则可以绘制足够的裙环，以使用此量的细丝，覆盖循环中设置的值。

English:These notes will be added as comments in the header of the output G-Code.
Translated:这些注释将作为注释添加到输出G代码的标题中。

English:The diameter of the extruder's nozzle.
Translated:挤出机喷嘴的直径。

English:G-Code to run when the printer is paused.
Translated:打印机暂停时运行的G代码。

English:A modifier of the width of the extrusion when printing outside perimeters. Can be useful to fine-adjust actual print size when objects print larger or smaller than specified in the digital model.
Translated:打印外围时的挤出宽度的修改器。当对象打印大于或小于数字模型中指定的尺寸时，可以精确调整实际打印尺寸。

English:The speed at which inside perimeters will print.
Translated:内部周边的速度将打印。

English:The number, or total width, of external shells to create. Add mm to the end of the number to specify width in millimeters.
Translated:要创建的外壳的数量或总宽度。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定宽度（以毫米为单位）。

English:You can include additional programs to process the G-Code after slicer is finished. The complete path of the program to run should be included here.
Translated:您可以在切片器完成后包括其他程序来处理G代码。程序运行的完整路径应该包括在这里。

English:The position (X and Y coordinates) of the center of the print bed, in millimeters.
Translated:打印床中心的位置（X和Y坐标），单位为毫米。

English:G-Code to be run when the print resumes after a pause.
Translated:暂停后打印恢复时，G代码运行。

English:The minimum distance of a non-print move which will trigger a retraction.
Translated:触发缩回的非打印移动的最小距离。

English:The distance filament will reverse before each qualifying non-print move
Translated:每次合格的非打印移动之前，距离丝将反转

English:When using multiple extruders, the distance filament will reverse before changing to a different extruder.
Translated:当使用多个挤出机时，在改变为不同的挤出机之前，距离丝将反转。

English:Force a retraction when moving between islands (distinct parts on the layer).
Translated:在岛屿之间移动时强制撤回（层上的不同部分）。

English:The distance the nozzle will lift after each retraction.
Translated:每次收回后喷嘴距离将提升。

English:Length of filament to extrude after a complete retraction (in addition to the re-extrusion of the Length on Move distance).
Translated:在完全收缩之后拉伸长丝的长度（除了重新挤出长度移动距离之外）。

English:The speed at which filament will retract and re-extrude.
Translated:长丝将退缩并再挤出的速度。

English:The number of loops to draw around all the parts on the bed before starting on the parts. Used mostly to prime the nozzle so the flow is even when the actual print begins.
Translated:在零件开始之前，在床上的所有部件上循环的数量。主要用于灌注喷嘴，以便在实际打印开始时即使流动。

English:The minimum amount of time a layer must take to print. If a layer will take less than this amount of time, the movement speed is reduced so the layer print time will match this value, down to the minimum print speed at the slowest.
Translated:图层打印所需的最短时间。如果一层需要的时间少于此时间，则移动速度会降低，因此层打印时间将与此值相匹配，最低打印速度最低。

English:Forces the print to have only one extrusion and gradually increase the extruder height during the print. Only one part will print at a time with this feature.
Translated:迫使印刷品只有一个挤出，并在印刷期间逐渐增加挤出机的高度。此功能一次只能打印一部分。

English:G-Code to be run immediately following the temperature setting commands. Including commands to set temperature in this section will cause them not be generated outside of this section. Will accept Custom G-Code variables.
Translated:温度设置命令后立即运行G代码。包括本节中设置温度的命令将导致它们不在本节之外生成。将接受自定义G代码变量。

English:The distance between the first layer (the bottom) and the top of the raft. A good value depends on the type of material. For PLA and ABS a value between 0.1 and 0.3 generaly works well.
Translated:第一层（底部）和筏顶部之间的距离。一个很好的价值取决于材料的类型。对于PLA和ABS，0.1和0.3之间的值可以很好地工作。

English:The percent of the extrusion width that can be overlapped and still generate.
Translated:可以重叠并仍然产生的挤出宽度的百分比。

English:The angle at which the support material lines will be drawn.
Translated:支撑材料线将被拉出的角度。

English:Generates support material starting on top of internal surfaces. If unchecked support will only generate starting on the bed.
Translated:从内部表面开始生成支撑材料。如果未经检查的支持将仅在床上生成。

English:The index of the extruder to use for printing support material. Applicable only when Extruder Count is set to a value more than 1.
Translated:用于印刷支撑材料的挤出机的指数。仅当挤出机计数设置为大于1的值时才适用。

English:The index of the extruder to use to print the raft. Set to 0 to use the support extruder index.
Translated:用于打印筏子的挤出机的指数。设置为0以使用支持挤出机索引。

English:A modifier of the width of the extrusion when printing support material. Set to 0 for automatic calculation.
Translated:打印支撑材料时挤出宽度的改性剂。设为0进行自动计算。

English:The index of the extruder to use for support material interface layer(s).
Translated:用于支撑材料界面层的挤出机的指数。

English:The number of layers or the distance to print solid material between the supports and the part. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:层数或在支撑件和部件之间打印固体材料的距离。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定距离。

English:The pattern to draw for the generation of support material.
Translated:为生成支撑材料而绘制的图案。

English:The distance between support material lines.
Translated:支撑材料线之间的距离。

English:The speed at which support material structures will print.
Translated:支撑材料结构的打印速度。

English:The minimum angle of overhang for which support material will be created. The angle perpendicular to the bed = 0; parallel with the bed = 90.
Translated:将产生支撑材料的最小悬垂角度。垂直于床的角度= 0;平行于床= 90。

English:The distance the support material will be from the object in the X and Y directions.
Translated:支撑材料在X和Y方向上距离物体的距离。

English:The number of layers, or the distance, to skip between the support (including interface layers) and the model. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:在支持（包括界面层）和模型之间跳过的层数或距离。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定距离。

English:Generates support material under areas of the part which may be too steep to support themselves.
Translated:在零件的区域生成支撑材料，这些材料可能太陡，无法支撑自身。

English:The target temperature the extruder will attempt to reach during the print.
Translated:挤出机在打印过程中尝试达到的目标温度。

English:The temperature at which the extruder will wipe the nozzle, as specified by Custom G-Code.
Translated:按照Custom G-Code的规定，挤出机将擦拭喷嘴的温度。

English:The temperature to which the bed will heat (or cool) in order to remove the part, as specified in Custom G-Code.
Translated:按照定制G-Code中的规定，床将加热（或冷却）以除去部件的温度。

English:G-Code to be run after every tool change.
Translated:每个工具更换后运行G代码。

English:The number of layers, or the distance in millimeters, to solid fill on the top surface(s) of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance in millimeters.
Translated:层的数量，或以毫米为单位的距离，固体填充物体的顶面。将mm添加到数字的末尾以指定以毫米为单位的距离。

English:The speed at which the nozzle will move when not extruding material.
Translated:不挤出材料时喷嘴移动的速度。

English:The extruder will wipe the nozzle over the last up to 10 mm of tool path after retracting.
Translated:收缩后，挤出机将在最后10 mm的刀具路径上擦拭喷嘴。

English:Creates a perimeter around the part on which to wipe the other nozzle when printing using dual extrusion. Set to 0 to disable.
Translated:在使用双重挤出打印时，在其周围围绕其他喷嘴擦拭周边。设置为0以禁用。

English:The length and width of a tower created at the back left of the print used for wiping the next nozzle when changing between multiple extruders. Set to 0 to disable.
Translated:在用于在多个挤出机之间切换时擦拭下一个喷嘴的印刷品的左后方产生的塔的长度和宽度。设置为0以禁用。

English:Allows the printer to attempt going below 0 along the Z axis during the Software Print Leveling wizard, and disables related warnings. Does not override actual endstops, physical or software.
Translated:允许打印机在“软件打印调整”向导期间尝试沿Z轴低于0，并禁用相关警告。不会覆盖实际的endstop，物理或软件。

English:The distance to move the nozzle along the Z axis to ensure that it is the correct distance from the print bed. A positive number will raise the nozzle, and a negative number will lower it.
Translated:沿Z轴移动喷嘴的距离，以确保其距离打印台正确的距离。正数会提高喷嘴，负数会降低。

English:Retract When \nChanging Islands
Translated:在\ n改变群岛时撤回

English:Movement
Translated:运动

English:Fan
Translated:风扇

English:Firmware Version: {0}
Translated:固件版本：{0}

English:Offset
Translated:抵消

English:Downloads
Translated:下载

English:Local Library
Translated:本地图书馆

English:G-Code Terminal
Translated:G码终端

English:Go to Dashboard
Translated:转到信息中心

English:Sign Up for an Account
Translated:注册一个帐号

English:Create Account
Translated:创建帐号

English:Username
Translated:用户名

English:Enter a username
Translated:输入用户名

English:Email
Translated:电子邮件

English:Enter your email address
Translated:输入你的电子邮箱地址

English:Re-enter Password
Translated:重新输入密码

English:Confirm your Password
Translated:确认你的密码

English:Oops! Field cannot be left blank
Translated:糟糕！字段不能留空

English:Sorry!  Must be a valid email address.
Translated:抱歉!必须是一个有效的E-mail地址。

English:Please wait while we create your account...
Translated:请稍候我们创建您的帐户...

English:Account created
Translated:创建帐户

English:Success! Your account has been created.
Translated:成功！您的帐号已经建立。

English:Please log in to continue.
Translated:请登录访问更多内容。

English:Oops! Invalid username, email or password.
Translated:糟糕！用户名，电子邮件或密码无效。

English:Generates an outline around the support material to improve strength and hold up interface layers.
Translated:围绕支撑材料生成轮廓，以提高强度并保持界面层。

English:Create Perimeter
Translated:创建周长

English:Braille Builder
Translated:盲文生成器

English:Image Converter
Translated:图像转换器

English:Text Creator
Translated:文字创作者

English:sign out
Translated:登出

English:No macros are currently set up for this printer.
Translated:目前没有为此打印机设置宏。

English:The offset of each extruder relative to the first extruder. Only useful for multiple extruder machines.
Translated:每个挤出机相对于第一挤出机的偏移。仅适用于多台挤出机。

English:A modifier of the width of the extrusion for the first layer of the print. A value greater than 100% can help with adhesion to the print bed.
Translated:第一层印刷品的挤出宽度的改性剂。大于100％的值可以帮助粘贴到打印床上。

English:The distance from the model at which the first skirt loop is drawn. Make this 0 to create an anchor for the part to the bed, also known as a brim.
Translated:与第一个裙边环所绘制的模型的距离。使这个0创建一个锚点的部分到床，也称为边缘。

English:The speed at which the top solid layers will print. Can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:顶层固体层打印的速度。可以明确设置或以Infill速度的百分比设置。

English:Calibration
Translated:校准

English:EEProm
Translated:EEProm

English:Cloud
Translated:云

English:Notifications
Translated:通知

English:Application
Translated:应用

English:Language
Translated:语言

English:Display Mode
Translated:显示模式

English:Parts are not on the bed or outside the print area.\n\nWould you like to center them on the bed?
Translated:部件不在床上或打印区域外。 \ NN \你想把他们放在床上吗？

English:Parts not in print area
Translated:零件不在打印区域

English:Loading G-Code...
Translated:正在加载G代码...

English:demo
Translated:演示

English:Extruder 2
Translated:挤出机2

English:To re-calibrate the printer, or to turn off Auto Print Leveling, the print leveling controls can be found under 'Options'->'Calibration'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:要重新校准打印机或关闭自动打印调平，可以在“选项” - >“校准”下找到打印调平控制。 \ NN \点击“完成”关闭此窗口。

English:Start G-Code cannot contain G29 if Print Leveling is enabled.
Translated:启动打印调平时，启动G代码不能包含G29。

English:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G29 if you are planning on using print leveling. Change your start G-Code or turn off print leveling
Translated:如果您打算使用打印调平，则您的开始G代码不应包含G29。更改开始G代码或关闭打印调平

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'First Layer'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'灯丝' - >'挤出' - >'第一层'

English:Start G-Code cannot contain G30 if Print Leveling is enabled.
Translated:启动打印调平时，启动G代码不能包含G30。

English:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G30 if you are planning on using print leveling. Change your start G-Code or turn off print leveling
Translated:如果您计划使用打印调平，则您的开始G代码不应包含G30。更改开始G代码或关闭打印调平

English:Loading G-Code
Translated:加载G代码

English:Estimated Mass
Translated:估计质量

English:Export EEPROM Settings
Translated:导出EEPROM设置

English:MatterControl - 
Translated:物质控制 - 

English:Export EEPROM
Translated:导出EEPROM

English:Import EEPROM Settings
Translated:导入EEPROM设置

English:Import EEPROM
Translated:导入EEPROM

English:Center on Bed
Translated:中心在床上

English:Would you like to save your changes before exiting the editor?
Translated:是否要在退出编辑器之前保存更改？

English:Save Changes
Translated:保存更改

English:Snap Grid
Translated:捕捉网格

English:Retraction On Tool Change
Translated:退刀工具更换

English:randomize_start
Translated:randomize_start

English:Forces the slicer to attempt to avoid having the perimeter line cross over existing perimeter lines. This can help with oozing or strings.
Translated:迫使切片机尝试避免使外围线与现有的外围线交叉。这可以帮助渗透或字符串。

English:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Serves no purpose for slicing, but controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.
Translated:打印机可打印卷的高度，单位为毫米。无法进行切片，但控制3D视图中显示的可视打印区域的高度。

English:The speed at which outside, external, or the otherwise visible perimeters will print.
Translated:外部，外部或其他可见周边的打印速度。

English:Used to specify if more than one extruder share a common heater cartridge.
Translated:用于指定是否有多个挤出机共用一个通用加热器盒。

English:The actual diameter of the filament used for printing. Measure 5 times with calipers, throw out the top and bottom, and average the remaining 3.
Translated:用于印刷的细丝的实际直径。用卡钳测量5次，扔出顶部和底部，平均剩余3。

English:The height of the first layer. A first layer taller than the default layer height can ensure good adhesion to the build plate.
Translated:第一层的高度。高于默认层高度的第一层可以确保对建筑板的良好粘附。

English:The printer has the ability to control the power supply. Enable this function to show the ATX Power Control section on the Controls pane.
Translated:打印机能够控制电源。启用此功能以显示控制面板上的ATX电源控制部分。

English:The number of loops to draw around parts. Used to provide additional bed adhesion
Translated:环绕零件的循环次数。用于提供额外的床附着力

English:Skirt (Priming)
Translated:裙子（启动）

English:Brim (Hold Downs)
Translated:边缘（压住）

English:Finish Setup...
Translated:完成安装程序...

English:Run setup configuration for printer.
Translated:运行打印机的安装配置。

English:Name
Translated:名称

English:Make
Translated:使

English:User Manual
Translated:用户手册

English:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.
Translated:打印机可打印卷的高度，单位为毫米。控制3D视图中显示的可视打印区域的高度。

English:Extruder 3
Translated:挤出机3

English:Extruder 4
Translated:挤出机4

English:Undo
Translated:撤消

English:Redo
Translated:重做

English:Set Name
Translated:设置名称

English:MatterHackers - Set Name
Translated:MatterHackers  - 设置名称

English:Shapes
Translated:形状

English:This will only work on specific hardware. Do not use unless you are sure your printer controller supports this feature
Translated:这只适用于特定硬件。除非您确定您的打印机控制器支持此功能，否则请勿使用

English:Show Firmware Updater
Translated:显示固件更新程序

English:Cube
Translated:立方体

English:Cylinder
Translated:圆筒

English:Sphere
Translated:领域

English:Output only the first layer of the print. Especially useful for outputting gcode data for applications like engraving or cutting.
Translated:仅输出打印的第一层。特别适用于输出雕刻或切割等应用程序的gcode数据。

English:First Layer Only
Translated:第一层

English:File Settings
Translated:文件设置

English:Solid Infill works best when set to LINES.
Translated:Solid Infill在设置为LINES时效果最佳。

English:'First Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.
Translated:“第一层高度”必须小于或等于“喷嘴直径”。

English:'First Layer Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.
Translated:“第一层挤出宽度”必须小于或等于“喷嘴直径”* 4。

English:Pyramid
Translated:金字塔

English:Half Sphere
Translated:半球

English:Cone
Translated:锥体

English:Wedge
Translated:楔

English:Roof
Translated:屋顶

English:Round Roof
Translated:圆屋顶

English:Honey Comb
Translated:蜂蜜梳

English:Apply leveling to G-Code during export
Translated:在出口过程中应用G-Code进行校准

English:Material 0
Translated:材料0

English:Printers
Translated:打印机

English:The speed at which the nozzle will move when resuming a failed print, for 1 layer.
Translated:恢复出现故障打印时喷嘴移动的速度为1层。

English:Set if the z homing moves the extruder away from the bed (z-max homing)
Translated:如果z定位将挤出机从床上移动（z-max归位），则设置

English:The X and Y position of the extruder that minimizes the chance of colliding with the parts on the bed.
Translated:挤出机的X和Y位置最小化与床上部件碰撞的可能性。

English:Restore All
Translated:恢复所有

English:Restore Default
Translated:恢复默认

English:Outer Surface
Translated:外表面

English:Minimum Travel equiring Retraction
Translated:最小旅行退休

English:Retract When Changing Islands
Translated:改变群岛时撤回

English:Minimum Extrusion Requiring Retraction
Translated:最小挤出要求退缩

English:Slow Down If Layer Print Time Is Below
Translated:如果图层打印时间在下面，请慢下来

English:Resume Failed Print
Translated:恢复失败打印

English:Homing
Translated:归乡

English:G-Code to be run before every tool change.
Translated:每个工具更换之前运行G代码。

English:Before Tool Change G-Code
Translated:工具更换G代码之前

English:After Tool Change G-Code
Translated:工具更换G代码

English:One Time
Translated:一次

English:Single Print Settings
Translated:单打印设置

English:Single Print
Translated:单打印

English:Reset at End of Print
Translated:在打印结束时重置

English:Will Clear at End of Print
Translated:将在打印结束时清除

English:Settings Will Clear at End of Print
Translated:设置将在打印结束时清除

English:Max Temp
Translated:最高温度

English:Add a new Macro
Translated:添加一个新的宏

English:Add a new Settings Preset
Translated:添加新的设置预设

English:Import an existing Settings Preset
Translated:导入现有的设置预设

English:The serial port communication speed of the printers firmware.
Translated:打印机固件的串口通讯速度。

English:Home Z Max
Translated:首页Z Max

English:Resume Layer Speed
Translated:恢复层速度

English:XY Resume Position
Translated:XY恢复位置

English:Resume Print
Translated:恢复打印

English:It appears your last print failed to complete.\n\nWould your like to attempt to resume from the last know position?
Translated:看来您的最后一次打印无法完成。 \ NN \你想尝试从最后的知道位置恢复吗？

English:Resume Last Print
Translated:简历上一次打印

English:mm
Translated:mm

English:mm or %
Translated:mm或％

English:count or mm
Translated:数或毫米

English:°
Translated:°

English:mm/s
Translated:mm / s

English:mm/s or %
Translated:mm / s或％

English:%
Translated:％

English:layers or mm
Translated:层或毫米

English:°C
Translated:C

English:seconds
Translated:秒

English:layers
Translated:层

English:Action
Translated:行动

English:ComPort
Translated:ComPort

English:Set the com port to use while connecting to this printer.
Translated:设置连接到本打印机时使用的COM端口。

English:If set, the printer will automatically attempt to connect when selected.
Translated:如果设置，打印机将在选择时自动尝试连接。

English:Give the macro a name
Translated:给宏一个名字

English:This should be in 'G-Code'
Translated:这应该在“G-Code”

English:Software Print Leveling
Translated:软件打印调平

English:Edit Preset:
Translated:编辑预设：

English:Preset Name:
Translated:预设名称：

English:This is the name of your printer that will be displayed in the choose printer menu.
Translated:这是打印机的名称，将在选择打印机菜单中显示。

English:Local Computer
Translated:本地电脑

English:Connection
Translated:连接

English:Interface
Translated:接口

English:Behavior
Translated:行为

English:Connection Info
Translated:连接信息

English:Camera Monitoring
Translated:相机监控

English:Details
Translated:细节

English:Edit Printer Settings
Translated:编辑打印机设置

English:Edit Selected Setting
Translated:编辑所选设置

English:Edit Current Printer Settings
Translated:编辑当前打印机设置

English:Printer Settings
Translated:打印机设置

English:Delete the currently selected printer profile.
Translated:删除当前选择的打印机配置文件。

English:Delete Printer
Translated:删除打印机

English:Estimated Print Time
Translated:预计打印时间

English:The COM port to use while connecting to this printer.
Translated:连接本打印机时使用的COM端口。

English:COM Port
Translated:COM端口

English:Setup Wizard
Translated:安装向导

English:Setup Options
Translated:设置选项

English:Please wait. Generating printer profile
Translated:请稍候。生成打印机配置文件

English:Connect Your Device
Translated:连接您的设备

English:Instructions:
Translated:说明：

English:1. Power on your 3D Printer.
Translated:打开3D打印机电源。

English:2. Attach your 3D Printer via USB.
Translated:2.通过USB连接3D打印机。

English:3. Press 'Connect'.
Translated:3.按“连接”。

English:(Press 'Skip' to setup connection later)
Translated:（稍后按“跳过”设置连接）

English:Troubleshoot
Translated:疑难解答

English:Estimated Print Time:
Translated:预计打印时间：

English:Are you sure you want to delete your currently selected printer?
Translated:您确定要删除当前选择的打印机吗？

English:Delete Printer?
Translated:删除打印机？

English:The Fill Density must be between 0 and 1.
Translated:填充密度必须介于0和1之间。

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Infill'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'常规' - >'填充'

English:Length of extra filament to extrude after a complete tool change (in addition to the re-extrusion of the tool change retraction distance).
Translated:在完全换刀之后（除了重新挤出刀具更换回缩距离之外），额外的细丝长度可以拉伸。

English:Extra Length After Tool Change
Translated:刀具更换后的额外长度

English:mm zero to disable
Translated:mm为零禁用

English:Connection Troubleshooting
Translated:连接故障排除

English:Generate Extra Perimeters When Needed:
Translated:生成额外的周边需要时：

English:mm2
Translated:mm2

English:Only Retract When  Crossing Perimeters
Translated:仅在穿越周边时缩回

English:mm/s�
Translated:mm /s�

English:mm or % leave 0 for auto
Translated:mm或％为自动停留0

English:Enable Fan If Layer Print Time Is Below
Translated:如果层打印时间低于，则启用风扇

English:Hz
Translated:赫兹

English:Current Settings
Translated:当前的设置

English:Reset to defaults
Translated:重置为默认值

English:Bake Overrides
Translated:烘烤覆盖

English:Export MatterControl settings (*.printer)
Translated:导出MatterControl设置（* .printer）

English:Export Slic3r settings (*.ini)
Translated:导出Slic3r设置（* .ini）

English:Export Cura settings (*.ini)
Translated:导出库拉设置（* .ini）

English:Export Settings
Translated:导出设置

English:Resetting to default values will remove your current overrides and restore your original printer settings.\nAre you sure you want to continue?
Translated:重置为默认值将删除您当前的覆盖并恢复原始打印机设置。你确定要继续吗？

English:Revert Settings
Translated:还原设置

English:Import as new printer profile
Translated:导入为新的打印机配置文件

English:Merge into current printer profile
Translated:合并到当前的打印机配置文件中

English:Replace current printer profile
Translated:更换当前的打印机配置文件

English:Import Settings
Translated:导入设置

English:Oops! Please select a serial port.
Translated:糟糕！请选择串口。

English:The layers at which the print will pause, allowing for a change in filament. Leave blank to disable. To pause on multiple layers, separate the layer numbers with semicolons. For example: "16; 37".
Translated:印刷品将停留的层，允许长丝变化。留空以禁用。要在多个图层上暂停，请用分号分隔图层编号。例如：“16; 37”。

English:Layers To Pause:
Translated:层次暂停：

English:Import Wizard
Translated:导入向导

English:Import settings as new QUALITY preset
Translated:导入设置为新的QUALITY预设

English:Import settings as new MATERIAL preset
Translated:导入设置为新的MATERIAL预设

English:Choose File
Translated:选择文件

English:Export Wizard
Translated:导出向导

English:Oops! Unable to recognize settings file '{0}'.
Translated:糟糕！无法识别设置文件“{0}”。

English:Unable to Import
Translated:无法导入

English:You have successfully imported a new printer profile. You can find '{0}' in your list of available printers.
Translated:您已成功导入新的打印机配置文件。您可以在可用打印机列表中找到“{0}”。

English:Import Successful
Translated:进口成功

English:The distance between the first layer (the bottom) and the top of the support material. A good value depends on the type of material. For PLA and ABS a value between 0.1 and 0.3 generaly works well.
Translated:第一层（底部）和支撑材料顶部之间的距离。一个很好的价值取决于材料的类型。对于PLA和ABS，0.1和0.3之间的值可以很好地工作。

English:Printers...
Translated:打印机...

English:Current
Translated:当前

English:Quality preset
Translated:质量预设

English:Material preset
Translated:物料预设

English:You have successfully imported a new {0} setting. You can find '{1}' in your list of {2} settings.
Translated:您已成功导入新的{0}设置。您可以在{2}设置列表中找到“{1}”。

English:Select the parts of the printer file that you would like to merge into your current profile.
Translated:选择要合并到当前配置文件中的打印机文件的部分。

English:Select Parts to Import
Translated:选择要导入的零件

English:Merge
Translated:合并

English:Export As
Translated:导出为

English:Cura
Translated:库拉

English:You have successfully imported a new {1} setting. You can find '{0}' in your list of {1} settings.
Translated:您已成功导入新的{1}设置。您可以在{1}设定清单中找到“{0}”。

English:Select what you would like to merge into your current profile.
Translated:选择您要合并到当前配置文件中的内容。

English:Settings have been merged into your current printer.
Translated:设置已合并到您当前的打印机中。

English:Select What to Import
Translated:选择要导入的内容

English:Select section to import to preset.
Translated:选择要导入到预设的部分。

English:Sign in to access your cloud printer profiles.\n\nOnce signed in you will be able to access:
Translated:登录以访问您的云打印机配置文件。 \ NN \一旦登录，您将可以访问：

English:Save your designs to the cloud and access them from anywhere in the world. You can also share them any time with with anyone you want.
Translated:将您的设计保存到云端，并从世界任何地方访问它们。您也可以随时与任何人分享。

English:Cloud Profiles
Translated:云端配置文件

English:Create your machine settings once, and have them available anywhere you want to print. All your changes appear on all your devices.
Translated:创建您的机器设置一次，并让它们可以在任何地方打印。所有更改都会显示在所有设备上。

English:Remote Monitoring
Translated:远程监控

English:Check on your prints from anywhere. With cloud monitoring, you have access to your printer no matter where you go.
Translated:从任何地方检查您的印刷品。通过云监控，无论您身在何处，都可以访问您的打印机。

English:Sign In
Translated:签到

English:Unable to connect to server
Translated:无法连接到服务器

English:What was my password again?
Translated:我的密码是什么？

English:Reset Password
Translated:重设密码

English:Email Address
Translated:电子邮件地址

English:A password reset code will be sent to your email.
Translated:密码重置代码将发送到您的电子邮件。

English:The price of one kilogram of filament. Used for estimating the cost of a print in the Layer View.
Translated:一公斤长丝的价格。用于估算图层视图中打印的成本。

English:Material density. Only used for estimating mass in the Layer View.
Translated:材料密度仅用于估计图层视图中的质量。

English:Estimated Cost
Translated:估计成本

English:Density
Translated:密度

English:g/cm³
Translated:g / cm 3

English:Cost
Translated:成本

English:$/kg
Translated:$ / kg

English:OEM Date Modified
Translated:OEM日期修改

English:Accept
Translated:接受

English:Please wait until the print has finished and try again.
Translated:请等待打印完成，然后重试。

English:Can't switch printers while printing
Translated:打印时无法切换打印机

English:Can't log out while printing
Translated:打印时无法注销

English:Are you sure you want to logout? You will not have access to your printer profiles or cloud library.
Translated:您确定要退出？您将无法访问您的打印机配置文件或云库。

English:Logout?
Translated:登出？

English:Logout
Translated:登出

English:Can't login while printing
Translated:打印时无法登录

English:Cloud Printer Profiles
Translated:云打印机配置文件

English:Copy Guest Printers
Translated:复制客户打印机

English:'First Layer Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.
Translated:“第一层挤出宽度”必须大于0。

English:It's time to upload your existing printers to your MatterHackers account. Once uploaded, these printers will be available every time you log into MatterControl.
Translated:现在是将现有打印机上传到您的MatterHackers帐户。一旦上传，这些打印机将在每次登录到MatterControl时都可用。

English:Select Printers to Upload
Translated:选择要上传的打印机

English:Printers to Upload:
Translated:要上传的打印机：

English:Upload
Translated:上传

English:Printer History
Translated:打印机历史记录

English:Subject*
Translated:学科*

English:Message*
Translated:信息*

English:Email Address*
Translated:电子邮件地址*

English:Name*
Translated:名称*

English:MatterControl: Submit Feedback
Translated:MatterControl：提交反馈

English:How can we improve?
Translated:我们如何改进？

English:Forums
Translated:论坛

English:Wiki
Translated:维基

English:Guides and Arcticles
Translated:指南和文字

English:Guides and Articles
Translated:指南和文章

English:Syncing Profiles...
Translated:同步配置文件...

English:G-Code
Translated:G代码

English:Defaults Updated On: {0}
Translated:默认值已更新：{0}

English:Defaults Updated On: { 0} 
Translated:默认值已更新：{0}

English:Defaults Updated On: {0} 
Translated:默认值已更新：{0}

English:Properties
Translated:属性

English:Qualities
Translated:品质

English:Temperatures
Translated:温度

English:While Printing
Translated:打印时

English:On Tool Change
Translated:工具更换

English:Select a Printer.
Translated:选择打印机。

English:The profile you are attempting to load has been corrupted. We loaded your last usable {0} {1} profile from your recent profile history instead.
Translated:您尝试加载的配置文件已损坏。我们从您最近的个人资料记录中加载了您上次使用的{0} {1}个配置文件。

English:Recovered printer profile
Translated:恢复打印机配置文件

English:Sorry! Looks like an account already exists for that email address.
Translated:抱歉!看起来这个电子邮件地址已经存在。

English:Settings History
Translated:设置历史记录

English:Allows the printer to attempt to connect to a printer over the network.
Translated:允许打印机尝试通过网络连接到打印机。

English:IP Address of printer/printer controller
Translated:打印机/打印机控制器的IP地址

English:Port number to be used with IP Adress to connect to printer over the network
Translated:与IP地址一起使用的端口号通过网络连接到打印机

English:IP Address
Translated:IP地址

English:Port
Translated:港口

English:Enable Network Printing
Translated:启用网络打印

English:Determines the method of communication used to talk to your printer.
Translated:确定用于与打印机通信的通信方式。

English:The layer(s) at which the print will pause, allowing for a change in filament. Leave blank to disable. To pause on multiple layers, separate the layer numbers with semicolons. For example: "16; 37".
Translated:印刷品将暂停的层，允许长丝变化。留空以禁用。要在多个图层上暂停，请用分号分隔图层编号。例如：“16; 37”。

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 will increase the amount of filament being extruded (1.1 is a good max value); decreasing it will decrease the amount being extruded (.9 is a good minimum value).
Translated:所有挤压乘以该值。将其增加到1以上将增加被挤出的长丝的数量（1.1是一个很好的最大值）;减少它将减少挤出量（.9是一个很好的最小值）。

English:The distance that the perimeter will overlap itself when it completes its loop, expressed as a percentage of the Nozzle Diameter.
Translated:当其完成循环时，周长将与其自身重叠的距离，以喷嘴直径的百分比表示。

English:Start End Overlap
Translated:开始结束重叠

English:Layer(s) To Pause:
Translated:层（暂停）：

English:Allows the printer to attempt to connect to a printer over the network. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)
Translated:允许打印机尝试通过网络连接到打印机。 （您必须断开连接并重新连接才能生效）

English:Allows the printer to use the s3g communication method. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)
Translated:允许打印机使用s3g通讯方式。 （您必须断开连接并重新连接才能生效）

English:Enable Sailfish Communication
Translated:启用海鱼通讯

English:Sets MatterControl to attempt to connect to a printer over the network. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)
Translated:设置MatterControl以尝试通过网络连接到打印机。 （您必须断开连接并重新连接才能生效）

English:Sets MatterControl to use s3g communication method. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)
Translated:将MatterControl设置为使用s3g通信方式。 （您必须断开连接并重新连接才能生效）

English:Networked Printing
Translated:网络打印

English:Sailfish Communication
Translated:海鱼通讯

English:The position (X and Y coordinates) of the center of the print bed, in millimeters. Normally this is 1/2 the bed size for Cartesian printers and 0, 0 for Delta printers.
Translated:打印床中心的位置（X和Y坐标），单位为毫米。通常这是笛卡尔打印机的1/2尺寸，Delta打印机是0，0。

English:Update Required
Translated:需要更新

English:There is a required update available.
Translated:有一个必需的更新可用。

English:Import Printer
Translated:导入打印机

English:Resume Settings
Translated:恢复设置

English:Enable Resuming
Translated:启用恢复

English:When this is checked MatterControl will attempt to resume a print in the event of a failure, such as lost connection or lost power.
Translated:当检查此情况时，MatterControl会尝试在发生故障时恢复打印，例如连接失败或电源丢失。

English:Minimum Travel Requiring Retraction
Translated:最小旅行需要撤回

English:Retreiving sync information...
Translated:恢复同步信息...

English:- default -
Translated: - 默认 - 

English:Profile History
Translated:简介历史

English:Detect sections of the model that would be too thin to print, expand them, and print them.
Translated:检测模型中太薄的部分，以便打印，展开它们并打印它们。

English:Detect gaps between perimeters that are too thin to fill with normal infill and attempt to fill them.
Translated:检测太薄的周长之间的间隙，以填补正常填充并尝试填充它们。

English:Expand Thin Walls
Translated:展开薄壁

English:Fill Thin Gaps
Translated:填补薄差

English:Sign in Required
Translated:登录必需

English:Are you sure you want to sign out? You will not have access to your printer profiles or cloud library.
Translated:您确定要退出吗？您将无法访问您的打印机配置文件或云库。

English:Sign Out?
Translated:登出？

English:Sign Out
Translated:登出

English:Sign in
Translated:签到

English:Sign in to my account
Translated:登录我的帐户

English:Don't ask me again
Translated:不要再问我了

English:Sets the models that will be added to the queue when a new printer is created.
Translated:设置创建新打印机时将添加到队列中的模型。

English:Don't remind me again
Translated:不要再提醒我

English:Retrieving sync information...
Translated:检索同步信息...

English:Please sign in to continue.
Translated:请登录以继续。

English:The speed at which the nozzle will move when recovering a failed print, for 1 layer.
Translated:恢复出现故障的打印头时喷嘴将移动的速度为1层。

English:When this is checked MatterControl will attempt to recover a print in the event of a failure, such as lost connection or lost power.
Translated:当检查到此情况时，MatterControl会尝试在发生故障时恢复打印，例如连接失败或电源丢失。

English:Recover Print
Translated:恢复打印

English:Enable Recovery
Translated:启用恢复

English:Recover Layer Speed
Translated:恢复层速度

English:XY Recover Position
Translated:XY恢复位置

English:Recover Settings
Translated:恢复设置

English:Print Recovery
Translated:打印恢复

English:XY Homing Position
Translated:XY归位位置

English:Uh oh! Passwords do not match.
Translated:呃哦密码不匹配。

English:Layers / Surface
Translated:层/表面

English:Raft / Priming
Translated:筏/起动

English:Priming
Translated:启动

English:First Layer Expansion
Translated:第一层扩展

English:Default settings updated: {0} 
Translated:默认设置已更新：{0}

English:Session Cleared
Translated:会话清除

English:It appears your last print failed to complete.\n\nWould your like to attempt to recover from the last know position?
Translated:看来您的最后一次打印无法完成。 \ NN \你想尝试从最后的知道位置恢复吗？

English:Recover Last Print
Translated:恢复上次打印

English:Disconnected
Translated:断开连接

English:Limited Connectivity
Translated:有限连接

English:Connection Status
Translated:连接状态

English:Retry Login
Translated:重试登录

English:It's time to migrate your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once added, these printers will be available whenever and wherever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not migrated will only be available in 'guest' mode.
Translated:现在是将现有的打印机设置迁移到您的MatterHackers帐户。一旦添加，这些打印机将随时随地登录到MatterControl。未迁移的打印机只能在“来宾”模式下使用。

English:Migrate Printers to Account
Translated:将打印机移植到帐户

English:Select and add a new printer.
Translated:选择并添加新的打印机。

English:Select an existing printer.
Translated:选择现有打印机。

English:The distance between the top of the support and the bottom of the model. A good value depends on the type of material. For ABS and PLA a value between 0.4 and 0.6 works well, respectively.
Translated:支撑顶部与模型底部之间的距离。一个很好的价值取决于材料的类型。对于ABS和PLA，值分别为0.4和0.6之间。

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the print
Translated:警告：断开连接将取消打印

English:It's time to copy your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once copied, these printers will be available whenever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not copied will only be available in 'guest' mode.
Translated:现在是将现有的打印机设置复制到您的MatterHackers帐户。一旦复制，这些打印机将在您登录MatterControl时可用。未复制的打印机只能在“来宾”模式下使用。

English:Copy Printers to Account
Translated:将打印机复印到帐户

English:Printers to Copy:
Translated:打印机复印：

English:Profiles
Translated:档案

English:Profile
Translated:简介

English:Oops! Settings file '{0}' did not contain any settings we could import.
Translated:糟糕！设置文件“{0}”不包含我们可以导入的任何设置。

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Printer' -> 'Print Recovery' -> 'Enable Recovery'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'打印机' - >'打印恢复' - >'启用恢复'

English:Start G-Code cannot contain G29 if Print Recovery is enabled.
Translated:启用打印恢复启动G代码不能包含G29。

English:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G29 if you are planning on using Print Recovery. Change your start G-Code or turn off Print Recovery
Translated:如果您计划使用打印恢复，则您的开始G代码不应包含G29。更改您的启动G代码或关闭打印恢复

English:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G30 if you are planning on using Print Recovery. Change your start G-Code or turn off Print Recovery
Translated:如果您计划使用打印恢复，您的开始G代码不应包含G30。更改您的启动G代码或关闭打印恢复

English:Search results no available in this view
Translated:搜索结果在此视图中无可用

English:Sorry: Search results not available in this view
Translated:对不起：此视图中没有搜索结果

English:Oops! Please select a folder to search
Translated:糟糕！请选择要搜索的文件夹

English:The bed is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting bed temperature in SETTINGS -> Filament -> Temperatures.\n\n{1}
Translated:床正在加热，其目标温度不能改变，直到达到{0}℃。 \ NN \您可以在SETTINGS  - >灯丝 - >温度中设置起始床温度。\n\n{1}

English:This is automatically set by MatterControl. You do not need to adjust it.
Translated:这是由MatterControl自动设置的。你不需要调整它。

English:The amount to change the printers home position after a z home has occured. This is used by print leveling and recovery. This should not be manualy edited.
Translated:在z home发生后，更改打印机原始位置的数量。这被打印调平和恢复使用。这不应该被手动编辑。

English:Z Home Position
Translated:Z首位

English:Offset After Homing
Translated:归位后偏移

English:Leveling Calibration
Translated:校平校准

English:It's time to copy your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once copied, these printers will be available whenever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not copied will only be available when not signed in.
Translated:现在是将现有的打印机设置复制到您的MatterHackers帐户。一旦复制，这些打印机将在您登录MatterControl时可用。未复制的打印机只有在未登录的情况下才可用。

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Printer' -> 'Custom G-Code' -> 'Start G-Code'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'打印机' - >'自定义G代码' - >'启动G代码'

English:none
Translated:没有

English:Exit while printing
Translated:打印时退出

English:Are you sure you want exit while a print is running from SD Card?\n\nNote: If you exit, it is recommended you wait until the print is completed before running MatterControl again.
Translated:当您从SD卡运行打印时，确定要退出吗？ \ NN \注意：如果退出，建议您再次运行MatterControl之前等待打印完成。

English:Connect printer and power on
Translated:连接打印机并打开电源

English:Detect perimeters that cross over themselves and combine them.
Translated:检测跨越自己并结合它们的周长。

English:Merge Overlapping Lines
Translated:合并重叠线

English:Restore Settings
Translated:还原设置

English:Streaming GCode...
Translated:串流GCode ...

English:Layers & Infill
Translated:层和填充

English:Raft & Support
Translated:筏和支撑

English:Redeem Code
Translated:兑换代码

English:Library - Enter Share Code
Translated:图书馆 - 输入共享代码

English:Macro Feedback
Translated:宏反馈

English:OK
Translated:好

English:Load Filament
Translated:负载灯丝

English:UnloadFilament
Translated:UnloadFilament

English:This controls the ratio of material extruded during bridging. Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, and using a fan can also help greatly.
Translated:这控制了在桥接期间挤出的材料的比例。减少这一点可以帮助桥梁拉伸长丝更多，并且使用风扇也可以大大帮助。

English:Each individual part is printed to completion then the nozzle is lowered back to the bed and the next part is printed.
Translated:每个单独的部分被打印完成，然后喷嘴被降回到床，并且下一部分被打印。

English:Moves the nozzle up and off the part to allow cooling.
Translated:将喷嘴向上和向下移动，以使其冷却。

English:Detects sections of the model that would be too thin to print and expands them to make them printable.
Translated:检测模型的部分，太薄，无法打印并展开它们，使其可打印。

English:Indicates that the Z axis homes the hot end away from the bed (z-max homing)
Translated:表示Z轴处于远离床的热端（z-max归位）

English:The X and Y position of the hot end that minimizes the chance of colliding with the parts on the bed.
Translated:热端的X和Y位置最小化与床上部件碰撞的机会。

English:The temperature to which the nozzle will be heated before printing the first layer of a part. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing.
Translated:在打印部件的第一层之前喷嘴将被加热的温度。在打印之前，打印机将等到达到此温度。

English:This will lower the temperature of the non-printing nozzle to help prevent oozing.
Translated:这将降低非印刷喷嘴的温度以帮助防止渗出。

English:The distance that a perimeter will overlap itself when it completes its loop, expressed as a percentage of the Nozzle Diameter.
Translated:当其完成其循环时，周长将与其自身重叠的距离，以喷嘴直径的百分比表示。

English:Forces the print to have only one extrusion and gradually increase the Z height during the print. Only one part will print at a time with this feature.
Translated:强制打印只有一个挤出，并在打印期间逐渐增加Z高度。此功能一次只能打印一部分。

English:The number of degrees Centigrade to lower the temperature of a nozzle while it is not active.
Translated:当喷嘴不起作用时降低喷嘴温度的摄氏摄氏度数。

English:Disconnect and stop the current print?
Translated:断开并停止当前打印？

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will stop the current print
Translated:警告：断开连接将停止当前打印

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will stop the current print.\n\nAre you sure you want to disconnect?
Translated:警告：断开连接将停止当前打印。 \ NN \您确定要断开连接吗？

English:Select a printer.
Translated:选择打印机。

English:Note: Be sure the tip of the extruder is clean.
Translated:注意：确保挤出机的尖端干净。

English:- none -
Translated:- 没有 -

English:Actions
Translated:行动

English:Show In Action Menu
Translated:显示操作菜单

English:Unable to Connect
Translated:无法连接

English:Port number to be used with IP Address to connect to printer over the network
Translated:要与IP地址一起使用的端口号，以通过网络连接到打印机

English:Reset to Defaults
Translated:重置为默认值

English:The serial port to use while connecting to this printer.
Translated:连接本打印机时使用的串行端口。

English:Save Changed
Translated:保存更改

English:Discard Changes
Translated:放弃更改

English:Stay Connected
Translated:保持联系

English:Cancel Print
Translated:取消打印

English:Continue Printing
Translated:继续打印

English:Recovered Once
Translated:恢复一次

English:Recovered once
Translated:恢复一次

English:recovered once
Translated:恢复一次

English:Add New Printer
Translated:添加新打印机

English:Add New Setting
Translated:添加新设置

English:Sync Dashboard
Translated:同步仪表板

English:SD Card
Translated:SD卡

English:MatterControl: Select Firmware File
Translated:MatterControl：选择固件文件

English:Starting firmware update...
Translated:启动固件更新...

English:Disconnecting from printer...
Translated:断开与打印机的连接...

English:Initializing hardware...
Translated:正在初始化硬件...

English:Creating firmware backup...
Translated:创建固件备份...

English:Update In Progress: {0}
Translated:更新进行中：{0}

English:Updating firmware...
Translated:更新固件...

English:Firmware updated successfully. Please reconnect.
Translated:固件更新成功。请重新连接

English:The 'Serial Port' section lists all available serial\nports on your device. Changing which USB port the printer\nis conneted to may change the associated serial port.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain, unplug/plug in your printer\nand hit refresh. The new port that appears should be\nyour printer.
Translated:“串行端口”部分列出了设备上所有可用的串口\ n端口。更改打印机\ n所连接的USB端口可能会更改相关的串行端口。 \ NN \提示：如果您不确定，拔下/插入打印机\ n并点击刷新。出现的新端口应为\ n您的打印机。

English:Reverting firmware to previous version...
Translated:将固件恢复到以前的版本...

English:Firmware restored successfully. Please reconnect.
Translated:固件恢复成功。请重新连接

English:SET
Translated:组

English:Move X negative
Translated:移动X负数

English:Move X positive
Translated:移动X正

English:Move Y positive
Translated:移动Y正

English:Move Y negative
Translated:移Y阴

English:Move Z positive
Translated:移动Z正

English:Move Z negative
Translated:移动Z负

English:Enable cursor keys for movement
Translated:使光标键移动

English:Retract filament
Translated:撤回长丝

English:Extrude filament
Translated:拉伸长丝

English:Home X, Y and Z
Translated:主页X，Y和Z

English:Home X
Translated:家X

English:Home Y
Translated:首页Y

English:Home Z
Translated:首页Z

English:Open cloud sync dashboard in web browser
Translated:在网络浏览器中打开云同步仪表板

English:Restart
Translated:重新开始

English:Please Review Your Order
Translated:请查看您的订单

English:Loading product information. Pleast wait...
Translated:加载产品信息。满意的等待...

English:Enter Code: 
Translated:输入代码：

English:Use Promo Code
Translated:使用促销代码

English:Applying...
Translated:申请...

English:Enter your Billing Address
Translated:输入您的帐单地址

English:Full Name
Translated:全名

English:Enter your Payment Info
Translated:输入您的付款信息

English:Place Order
Translated:下订单

English:Additional payment options coming soon!
Translated:其他付款方式即将推出！

English:- Please Select -
Translated:- 请选择 -

English:Credit Card Number
Translated:信用卡号

English:Expiration Date
Translated:截止日期

English:Card Verification Number
Translated:卡片识别号

English:Saving...
Translated:保存...

English:Oops! Payment has been declined.
Translated:糟糕！付款已被拒绝。

English:Distance or Loops
Translated:距离或循环

English:The z offset to apply to improve the first layer adhesion.
Translated:z偏移适用于提高第一层附着力。

English:Baby Step Offset
Translated:宝宝步偏移

English:Oops! Unable to initialize device.
Translated:糟糕！无法初始化设备。

English:The distance between the top of the raft and the bottom of the model. 0.6 mm is a good starting point for PLA and 0.4 mm is a good starting point for ABS. Lower values give a smoother surface, higher values make the print easier to remove.
Translated:木筏顶部和模型底部之间的距离。 0.6 mm是PLA的起点，0.4 mm是ABS的起点。较低的值使得表面更平滑，较高的值使打印更容易去除。

English:Clear ZOffset
Translated:清除ZOffset

English:Printing Window...
Translated:打印窗口

English:Only Retract When Crossing Perimeters
Translated:仅在穿越周边时缩回

English:baby_step_z_offset
Translated:baby_step_z_offset

English:gcode_arcs
Translated:gcode_arcs

English:calibration_files
Translated:calibration_files

English:'External Perimeter Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.
Translated:“外围外围挤出宽度”必须小于或等于“喷嘴直径”* 4。

English:External Perimeter Extrusion Width = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}
Translated:外部周边挤出宽度= {0} \ n喷嘴直径= {1}

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'External Perimeter'
Translated:位置：'设置和控制' - >'设置' - >'灯丝' - >'挤出' - >“外围”

English:'External Perimeter Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.
Translated:“外围外围挤出宽度”必须大于0。

English:External Perimeter Extrusion Width = {0}
Translated:外围挤出宽度= {0}

English:The starting height (z) of the print head before probing each print level position.
Translated:在检测每个打印级别位置之前打印头的起始高度（z）。

English:Probe Start Height
Translated:探头开始高度

English:Controls the speed of printer moves
Translated:控制打印机移动的速度

English:Controls the amount of extrusion
Translated:控制挤出量

English:feedrate_ratio
Translated:feedrate_ratio

English:extrusion_ratio
Translated:extrusion_ratio

English:Choose the material that you are loading.
Translated:选择您正在加载的材料。

English:Trim the end of the filament to ensure a good load.
Translated:修剪灯丝的末端以确保良好的负载。

English:Choose the material that you are loading. You are doing some stuff that takes a long description.
Translated:选择您正在加载的材料。你正在做一些需要很长时间描述的东西。

English:Confirm the material you are unloading.
Translated:确认您卸载的材料。

English:Waiting for extruder to heat to 205, before unloading.
Translated:等待挤出机加热至205，卸载前。

English:Unloading filament...
Translated:卸丝

English:Put filament into extruder and click Continue.
Translated:将长丝放入挤压机，然后单击继续。

English:Loading filament...
Translated:加载细丝

English:Waiting for extruder to heat to 205.
Translated:等待挤出机加热到205。

English:Click 'Continue' when filament is running cleanly.
Translated:当灯丝运行干净时点击“继续”。

English:Heating side 1.
Translated:加热侧1。

English:Turn Sandvich over!
Translated:把桑德维奇转过来！

English:Heating side 2.
Translated:加热侧2。

English:Done!
Translated:完成了！

English:WARNING: In order to perform print recovery, your printer must move down to reach its home position.\nIf your print is too large, part of your printer may collide with it when moving down.\nMake sure it is safe to perform this operation before proceeding.
Translated:警告：为了执行打印恢复，打印机必须向下移动才能到达其原始位置。 \ n如果您的打印太大，打印机的一部分可能会在向下移动时与其碰撞。 \ n请确保在继续操作之前执行此操作是安全的。

English:Print Monitor
Translated:打印监视器

English:Currently Printing
Translated:目前印刷

English:Homing Axis
Translated:归位轴

English:Waiting for Extruder to Heat to
Translated:等待挤压机加热

English:Waiting for Bed to Heat to
Translated:等待床加热

English:Bed
Translated:床

English:Axis movement speeds
Translated:轴移动速度

English:Tuning Adjust
Translated:调整调整

English:Initializing
Translated:初始化

English:Connection Failed
Translated:连接失败

English:Show Password
Translated:显示密码

English:Submit Button
Translated:提交按钮

English:Enter 12 Digit Redemption Code
Translated:输入12位数字兑换代码

English:This is located on the rear of your card
Translated:这位于您的卡片的后面

English:Please wait. Verifying code...
Translated:请稍候。验证码...

English:View Designs
Translated:查看设计

English:Success! Your code has been redeemed.
Translated:成功！您的代码已被兑换

English:Your new designs will appear in the 'Purchased' library folder.
Translated:您的新设计将显示在“已购买”库文件夹中。

English:Firmware Updates
Translated:固件更新

English:Firmware Options
Translated:固件选项

English:Backup before update
Translated:备份更新前

English:The thickness of the paper (or other calibration device) used to perform manual bed probe. For automatic bed probing, this is the offset of the probe from the tip of the nozzle.
Translated:用于执行手动床探头的纸张（或其他校准装置）的厚度。对于自动床探测，这是探头与喷嘴尖端的偏移。

English:The thickness of the paper (or other calibration device) used to perform manual bed probe. For automatic (G30) bed probing, this is the offset of the probe from the tip of the nozzle.
Translated:用于执行手动床探头的纸张（或其他校准装置）的厚度。对于自动（G30）床探测，这是探针与喷嘴尖端的偏移。

English:Enable this if your printer has hardware support for G30 (automatic bed probing) and you want to use it rather than manually measuring the probe positions.
Translated:如果您的打印机支持G30（自动床探测）的硬件，并且要使用它，而不是手动测量探头位置，请启用此功能。

English:Use G30 for probing
Translated:使用G30进行探测

English:Auto Calibrate
Translated:自动校准

English:You should be done in about {0} minutes.
Translated:你应该在大约{0}分钟内完成。

English:Auto Print Leveling is now configured and enabled.
Translated:自动打印调平现已配置并启用。

English:Click 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:点击“完成”关闭此窗口。

English:To complete the next few steps you will need
Translated:要完成接下来的几个步骤，您将需要

English:We should be done in less than {0} minutes.
Translated:我们应该在不到{0}分钟的时间内完成。

English:Note: Be sure the tip of the extruder is clean and the bed is clear.
Translated:注意：确保挤出机的尖端干净，床清洁。

English:Use G30 For Probing
Translated:使用G30进行探测

English:Specifies the endstop (if any) that is used to detect filament runout. Closed state defines filament has runout. If runout is detected the printers pause G-Code is run.
Translated:指定用于检测灯丝跳动的endstop（如果有）。闭合状态定义灯丝有跳动。如果检测到跳动，则打印机暂停G代码运行。

English:Fillament Runout Endstop
Translated:ament ament Run out。

English:Home the printer
Translated:回家打印机

English:Print Notification Settings:
Translated:打印通知设置：

English:Send SMS notifications
Translated:发送短信通知

English:Have MatterControl send you text messages about your print
Translated:请MatterControl向您发送有关您的打印的短信

English:Send email notifications
Translated:发送电子邮件通知

English:Have MatterControl send you email messages about your print
Translated:请MatterControl向您发送有关您的打印的电子邮件

English:Play a sound for notifications
Translated:播放通知声

English:Include a picture of my print
Translated:包含我的照片

English:If set, these positions will be used when running the 3 point leveling solution. Leave empty for defaults. Data Format:'x1,y1:x2,y2:x3,y3'
Translated:如果设置，则在运行3点调平解决方案时将使用这些位置。默认为空。数据格式：'x1，y1：x2，y2：x3，y3'

English:Leveling Positions
Translated:调平位置

