English:Connect
Translated:Connect

English:Disconnect
Translated:Disconnect

English:Status
Translated:Status

English:Connected
Translated:Connected

English:Not Connected
Translated:Not Connected

English:Select Printer
Translated:Select Printer

English:Options
Translated:Options

English:Next Print
Translated:Next Print

English:Add
Translated:Add

English:Add a file to be printed
Translated:Add a file to be printed

English:Start
Translated:Start

English:Begin printing the selected item.
Translated:Begin printing the selected item.

English:Skip
Translated:Skip

English:Skip the current item and move to the next in queue
Translated:Skip the current item and move to the next in queue

English:Remove
Translated:Remove

English:Remove current item from queue
Translated:Remove current item from queue

English:Pause
Translated:Pause

English:Pause the current print
Translated:Pause the current print

English:Cancel Connect
Translated:Cancel Connect

English:Stop trying to connect to the printer.
Translated:Stop trying to connect to the printer.

English:Cancel
Translated:Cancel

English:Stop the current print
Translated:Stop the current print

English:Resume
Translated:Resume

English:Resume the current print
Translated:Resume the current print

English:Reprint
Translated:Reprint

English:Print current item again
Translated:Print current item again

English:Done
Translated:Done

English:Move to next print in queue
Translated:Move to next print in queue

English:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer.
Translated:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer.

English:Press 'Add' to choose an item to print
Translated:Press 'Add' to choose an item to print

English:No items in the print queue
Translated:No items in the print queue

English:Queued to Print
Translated:Queued to Print

English:View
Translated:View

English:Copy
Translated:Copy

English:Add to Queue
Translated:Add to Queue

English:Export
Translated:Export

English:Est. Print Time
Translated:Est. Print Time

English:Calculating...
Translated:Calculating...

English:complete
Translated:complete

English:Remove All
Translated:Remove All

English:Queue Options
Translated:Queue Options

English: Import from Zip
Translated: Import from Zip

English: Export to Zip
Translated: Export to Zip

English: Export to Folder
Translated: Export to Folder

English:Extra
Translated:Extra

English: Create Part Sheet
Translated: Create Part Sheet

English:Search
Translated:Search

English:Import
Translated:Import

English:Create
Translated:Create

English:Check for Update
Translated:Check for Update

English:Download Update
Translated:Download Update

English:Install Update
Translated:Install Update

English:There are updates available.
Translated:There are updates available.

English:Checking for updates...
Translated:Checking for updates...

English:MatterControl
Translated:MatterControl

English:Version {0}
Translated:Version {0}

English:Developed by MatterHackers
Translated:Developed by MatterHackers

English:Please consider 
Translated:Please consider 

English:donating
Translated:donating

English: to help support and improve MatterControl.
Translated: to help support and improve MatterControl.

English:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on 
Translated:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on 

English:Slic3r
Translated:Slic3r

English:and to David Braam and Ultimaker BV, for the amazing 
Translated:and to David Braam and Ultimaker BV, for the amazing 

English:CuraEngine
Translated:CuraEngine

English:Send Feedback
Translated:Send Feedback

English:www.matterhackers.com
Translated:www.matterhackers.com

English:Copyright © 2014 MatterHackers, Inc.
Translated:Copyright © 2014 MatterHackers, Inc.

English:Build: {0} | 
Translated:Build: {0} | 

English:Clear Cache
Translated:Clear Cache

English:Queue
Translated:Queue

English:Rotate
Translated:Rotate

English:Scale
Translated:Scale

English:Mirror
Translated:Mirror

English:Display
Translated:Display

English:Show Print Bed
Translated:Show Print Bed

English:Show Print Area
Translated:Show Print Area

English:Show Wireframe
Translated:Show Wireframe

English:Auto-Arrange
Translated:Auto-Arrange

English:Save
Translated:Save

English:Degrees
Translated:Degrees

English:Align to Bed
Translated:Align to Bed

English:Ratio
Translated:Ratio

English:Conversions
Translated:Conversions

English:reset
Translated:reset

English:Apply Scale
Translated:Apply Scale

English:Finding Parts
Translated:Finding Parts

English:Edit
Translated:Edit

English:Delete
Translated:Delete

English:Close
Translated:Close

English:Generate
Translated:Generate

English:No GCode Available...
Translated:No GCode Available...

English:Loading GCode...
Translated:Loading GCode...

English:Press 'generate' to view layers
Translated:Press 'generate' to view layers

English:Model
Translated:Model

English:Layer
Translated:Layer

English:Library
Translated:Library

English:About
Translated:About

English:Advanced\nControls
Translated:Advanced\nControls

English:Print\nQueue
Translated:Print\nQueue

English:Actual
Translated:Actual

English:Target
Translated:Target

English:Presets
Translated:Presets

English:Movement Controls
Translated:Movement Controls

English:ALL
Translated:ALL

English:UNLOCK
Translated:UNLOCK

English:Retract
Translated:Retract

English:Extrude
Translated:Extrude

English:Communications
Translated:Communications

English:SHOW TERMINAL
Translated:SHOW TERMINAL

English:Fan Controls
Translated:Fan Controls

English:Fan Speed:
Translated:Fan Speed:

English:Macros
Translated:Macros

English:No macros are currently setup for this printer.
Translated:No macros are currently setup for this printer.

English:Tuning Adjustment (while printing)
Translated:Tuning Adjustment (while printing)

English:Speed Multiplier
Translated:Speed Multiplier

English:Set
Translated:Set

English:Extrusion Multiplier
Translated:Extrusion Multiplier

English:Controls
Translated:Controls

English:Slice Settings
Translated:Slice Settings

English:Show Help
Translated:Show Help

English:Show All Settings
Translated:Show All Settings

English:Active Settings
Translated:Active Settings

English:unsaved changes
Translated:unsaved changes

English:Revert
Translated:Revert

English:Options   
Translated:Options   

English:Slice Engine
Translated:Slice Engine

English:No Printer Selected
Translated:No Printer Selected

English:No printer is currently selected. Select printer to edit slice settings.
Translated:No printer is currently selected. Select printer to edit slice settings.

English:Attempts to minimize the number of perimeter crossing. This can help with oozing or strings.
Translated:Attempts to minimize the number of perimeter crossing. This can help with oozing or strings.

English:The shape of the physical print bed.
Translated:The shape of the physical print bed.

English:The size of the print bed.
Translated:The size of the print bed.

English:The temperature to set the bed to after the first layer has been printed. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:The temperature to set the bed to after the first layer has been printed. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.

English:How many layers will be solid filled on the bottom surfaces of the object.
Translated:How many layers will be solid filled on the bottom surfaces of the object.

English:Acceleration to during bridging. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to during bridging. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.

English:The fan speed to use during bridging.
Translated:The fan speed to use during bridging.

English:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging. Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.
Translated:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging. Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.

English:The speed to move when bridging between walls.
Translated:The speed to move when bridging between walls.

English:The amount of brim that will be drawn around each object. This is useful to ensure that parts stay affixed to the bed.
Translated:The amount of brim that will be drawn around each object. This is useful to ensure that parts stay affixed to the bed.

English:The height of the printable area. If set to 0 the parts height will not be validated.
Translated:The height of the printable area. If set to 0 the parts height will not be validated.

English:Each individual part is printed to completion then the extruder is lowered back to the bed and the next part is printed.
Translated:Each individual part is printed to completion then the extruder is lowered back to the bed and the next part is printed.

English:Moves the extruder up off the part to allow cooling.
Translated:Moves the extruder up off the part to allow cooling.

English:Turns on and off all cooling settings (all settings below this one).
Translated:Turns on and off all cooling settings (all settings below this one).

English:Acceleration to use on all moves not defined above. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use on all moves not defined above. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.

English:The number of layers for which the fan will be forced to remain off.
Translated:The number of layers for which the fan will be forced to remain off.

English:This gcode will be inserted at the end of all automatic output (the very end of the gcode commands).
Translated:This gcode will be inserted at the end of all automatic output (the very end of the gcode commands).

English:The speed to print the visible outside edges. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters speed.
Translated:The speed to print the visible outside edges. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters speed.

English:Normally external perimeters are printed last, this makes them go first.
Translated:Normally external perimeters are printed last, this makes them go first.

English:Allow slicer to generate extra perimeters when needed for sloping walls.
Translated:Allow slicer to generate extra perimeters when needed for sloping walls.

English:This is used to figure out how far apart individual parts must be printed to allow them to be completed before printing the next part.
Translated:This is used to figure out how far apart individual parts must be printed to allow them to be completed before printing the next part.

English:This is the offset of each extruder relative to the first extruder. Only useful for multiple extruder machines.
Translated:This is the offset of each extruder relative to the first extruder. Only useful for multiple extruder machines.

English:This is the identifier used in the gcode to specify the extruder.
Translated:This is the identifier used in the gcode to specify the extruder.

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 (1.1 is a good max value) will increase the amount of filament being extruded; decreasing it (.9 is a good min value) will decrease the amount being extruded.
Translated:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 (1.1 is a good max value) will increase the amount of filament being extruded; decreasing it (.9 is a good min value) will decrease the amount being extruded.

English:Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation of extrusion width.
Translated:Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation of extrusion width.

English:This will force the fan to remain on throughout the print. In general you should have this off and just enable auto cooling.
Translated:This will force the fan to remain on throughout the print. In general you should have this off and just enable auto cooling.

English:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the fan will be turned on.
Translated:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the fan will be turned on.

English:This should be set to the actual diameter of the filament you are using on your printer. Measure 5 times with calipers, throw out the top and bottom, and average the remaining 3.
Translated:This should be set to the actual diameter of the filament you are using on your printer. Measure 5 times with calipers, throw out the top and bottom, and average the remaining 3.

English:Sets the starting angle of the infill. Not used when bridging.
Translated:Sets the starting angle of the infill. Not used when bridging.

English:The ratio of material to empty space ranged 0 to 1. Zero would be no infill; 1 is solid infill.
Translated:The ratio of material to empty space ranged 0 to 1. Zero would be no infill; 1 is solid infill.

English:The pattern used on the inside portions of the print.
Translated:The pattern used on the inside portions of the print.

English:Acceleration to use while printing the first layer. Set to 0 to the default first layer acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use while printing the first layer. Set to 0 to the default first layer acceleration.

English:The temperature to set the bed to before printing the first layer. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:The temperature to set the bed to before printing the first layer. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.

English:Setting this to greater than 100% can often help the first layer have better adhesion to the print bed.
Translated:Setting this to greater than 100% can often help the first layer have better adhesion to the print bed.

English:Sets the height of the first layer. It is often desirable to print a taller first layer to ensure a good solid adhesion to the build plate.
Translated:Sets the height of the first layer. It is often desirable to print a taller first layer to ensure a good solid adhesion to the build plate.

English:The speed to move while printing the first layer.  If expressed as a percentage it will modify the corresponding speed set above.
Translated:The speed to move while printing the first layer.  If expressed as a percentage it will modify the corresponding speed set above.

English:The temperature to set the extruder to before printing the first layer of a part. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing.
Translated:The temperature to set the extruder to before printing the first layer of a part. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing.

English:Use G0 for moves rather than G1.
Translated:Use G0 for moves rather than G1.

English:Speed to fill small gaps. Keep low to avoid vibration. Set to 0 to skip filling small gaps.
Translated:Speed to fill small gaps. Keep low to avoid vibration. Set to 0 to skip filling small gaps.

English:Use firmware arcs rather than multiple segments for curves.
Translated:Use firmware arcs rather than multiple segments for curves.

English:Include detailed comments in the gcode.
Translated:Include detailed comments in the gcode.

English:Some firmware use different g and m codes. Setting this ensures that the output gcode will use the correct commands.
Translated:Some firmware use different g and m codes. Setting this ensures that the output gcode will use the correct commands.

English:Acceleration to use while infilling. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use while infilling. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.

English:Sets which layers will receive infill. This should normally stay set to 1 to make strong parts.
Translated:Sets which layers will receive infill. This should normally stay set to 1 to make strong parts.

English:The index of the extruder to use for infill.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for infill.

English:Sets infill to happen before perimeters are created.
Translated:Sets infill to happen before perimeters are created.

English:Creates infill only where it will be used as internal support.
Translated:Creates infill only where it will be used as internal support.

English:The speed to print infill.
Translated:The speed to print infill.

English:This gcode will be inserted right after the change in z height for the next layer.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted right after the change in z height for the next layer.

English:Sets the height of each layer of the print. A smaller number will create more layers and more vertical accuracy but also a slower print.
Translated:Sets the height of each layer of the print. A smaller number will create more layers and more vertical accuracy but also a slower print.

English:This is the maximum speed that your fan can run at.
Translated:This is the maximum speed that your fan can run at.

English:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a rectarction can occure.
Translated:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a rectarction can occure.

English:This is the minimum fan speed that your fan can run at.
Translated:This is the minimum fan speed that your fan can run at.

English:This is the minimum speed that the printer will reduce to to make the layer take long enough to satisfy the min layer time.
Translated:This is the minimum speed that the printer will reduce to to make the layer take long enough to satisfy the min layer time.

English:Sets the minimum amount of filament to use drawing the skirt loops. This will cause at least enough skirt loops to be drawn to use this amount of filament.
Translated:Sets the minimum amount of filament to use drawing the skirt loops. This will cause at least enough skirt loops to be drawn to use this amount of filament.

English:These notes will be added as comments in the header of the output gcode.
Translated:These notes will be added as comments in the header of the output gcode.

English:This is the diameter of your extruder nozle.
Translated:This is the diameter of your extruder nozle.

English:Prevents retraction while within a printing perimeter.
Translated:Prevents retraction while within a printing perimeter.

English:This will lower the temperature of the non-printing extruder to help prevent oozing.
Translated:This will lower the temperature of the non-printing extruder to help prevent oozing.

English:Experimental feature that attempts to improve overhangs using the fan and bridge settings.
Translated:Experimental feature that attempts to improve overhangs using the fan and bridge settings.

English:Sets the way that slicer creates file names (this is not used by MatterControl).
Translated:Sets the way that slicer creates file names (this is not used by MatterControl).

English:Acceleration to use on perimeters. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use on perimeters. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.

English:The index of the extruder to use for perimeters.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for perimeters.

English:Sets the default movement speed while printing perimeters.
Translated:Sets the default movement speed while printing perimeters.

English:The number of external layers or shells to create.
Translated:The number of external layers or shells to create.

English:You can include additional programs to process the gcode after slicer is finished. The complete path of the program to run should be included here.
Translated:You can include additional programs to process the gcode after slicer is finished. The complete path of the program to run should be included here.

English:The position (coordinates) of the center of the print bed.
Translated:The position (coordinates) of the center of the print bed.

English:Number of layers to print before printing any parts.
Translated:Number of layers to print before printing any parts.

English:Start each new layer from a different vertex to reduce seams.
Translated:Start each new layer from a different vertex to reduce seams.

English:The minimum distance of a non-printing move that will result in a retraction.
Translated:The minimum distance of a non-printing move that will result in a retraction.

English:If set, a retraction will occur prior to changing the layer height.
Translated:If set, a retraction will occur prior to changing the layer height.

English:The amount that the filament will be reversed after each qualifying non-printing move.
Translated:The amount that the filament will be reversed after each qualifying non-printing move.

English:The amount that the filament will be reversed before changing to a new tool.
Translated:The amount that the filament will be reversed before changing to a new tool.

English:The amount the extruder head will be lifted after each retraction.
Translated:The amount the extruder head will be lifted after each retraction.

English:The amount the filament will be retracted when changing to a different extruder.
Translated:The amount the filament will be retracted when changing to a different extruder.

English:No updates are currently available.
Translated:No updates are currently available.

English:Additional amount of filament that will be extruded after a retraction.
Translated:Additional amount of filament that will be extruded after a retraction.

English:The amount of extra extrusion that will occur when an extruder is selected.
Translated:The amount of extra extrusion that will occur when an extruder is selected.

English:The speed that the filament will be retracted (and re-extruded).
Translated:The speed that the filament will be retracted (and re-extruded).

English:The minimum feature size to consider from the model. Leave at 0 to use all the model detail.
Translated:The minimum feature size to consider from the model. Leave at 0 to use all the model detail.

English:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop.
Translated:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop.

English:The number of layers to draw the skirt.
Translated:The number of layers to draw the skirt.

English:The number of loops to draw around all the parts on the bed.
Translated:The number of loops to draw around all the parts on the bed.

English:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the movement speed will be reduced to try and make the layer take this long to print.
Translated:If a layer is estimated to take less than this to print, the movement speed will be reduced to try and make the layer take this long to print.

English:Used for small perimeters (usually holes). This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters' speed.
Translated:Used for small perimeters (usually holes). This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Perimeters' speed.

English:The pattern used on the bottom and top layers of the print.
Translated:The pattern used on the bottom and top layers of the print.

English:Forces solid infill for any area less than this amount.
Translated:Forces solid infill for any area less than this amount.

English:Sets how often a layer will be forced to be solid infilled. Zero will result in normal infill throughout.
Translated:Sets how often a layer will be forced to be solid infilled. Zero will result in normal infill throughout.

English:The speed to print infill when completely solid. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:The speed to print infill when completely solid. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.

English:Force the print to have only one layer and gradually increase the extruder height during the print. Only one part can be printed at a time with this feature.
Translated:Force the print to have only one layer and gradually increase the extruder height during the print. Only one part can be printed at a time with this feature.

English:This is the amount to lower the temperature of an extruder that is not currently printing.
Translated:This is the amount to lower the temperature of an extruder that is not currently printing.

English:This gcode will be inserted into the output right after the temperature setting. If you have the commands to set temperature in this section they will not be generated outside of this section. You can also include values from other settings such as [first_layer_temperature].
Translated:This gcode will be inserted into the output right after the temperature setting. If you have the commands to set temperature in this section they will not be generated outside of this section. You can also include values from other settings such as [first_layer_temperature].

English:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is a concave point.
Translated:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is a concave point.

English:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is not an overhang.
Translated:Make sure the first point on a perimeter is not an overhang.

English:The starting angle of the supports.
Translated:The starting angle of the supports.

English:Create support where needed on internal features.
Translated:Create support where needed on internal features.

English:Generate support material everywhere not touching the bed for n layers, regardless of angle.
Translated:Generate support material everywhere not touching the bed for n layers, regardless of angle.

English:The index of the extruder to use for support material.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for support material.

English:The index of the extruder to use for support material interface layers.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for support material interface layers.

English:The number of layers to print between the supports and the part.
Translated:The number of layers to print between the supports and the part.

English:The space between lines of the interface layers (0 is solid).
Translated:The space between lines of the interface layers (0 is solid).

English:The pattern used while generating support material.
Translated:The pattern used while generating support material.

English:The space between the lines of he support material.
Translated:The space between the lines of he support material.

English:The speed to print support material structures.
Translated:The speed to print support material structures.

English:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support. Set to 0 to enable automatic settings.
Translated:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support. Set to 0 to enable automatic settings.

English:The distance the support material will be from the object in the x and y direction.
Translated:The distance the support material will be from the object in the x and y direction.

English:The distance the support material will be from the object in the z direction.
Translated:The distance the support material will be from the object in the z direction.

English:This turns on and off the generation of support material.
Translated:This turns on and off the generation of support material.

English:The temperature to set the extruder to after the first layer has been printed.
Translated:The temperature to set the extruder to after the first layer has been printed.

English:Detect when walls are too close together and need to be extruded as just one wall.
Translated:Detect when walls are too close together and need to be extruded as just one wall.

English:The number of CPU cores to use while doing slicing. Increasing this can slow down your machine.
Translated:The number of CPU cores to use while doing slicing. Increasing this can slow down your machine.

English:This gcode will be inserted after every tool change.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted after every tool change.

English:The speed to print the top infill. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:The speed to print the top infill. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.

English:How many layers will be solid filled on the top surfaces of the object.
Translated:How many layers will be solid filled on the top surfaces of the object.

English:Speed to move when not extruding material.
Translated:Speed to move when not extruding material.

English:Request the firmware to do retractions rather than specify the extruder movements directly.
Translated:Request the firmware to do retractions rather than specify the extruder movements directly.

English:Normally you will want to use absolute e distances. Only check this if you know your printer needs relative e distances.
Translated:Normally you will want to use absolute e distances. Only check this if you know your printer needs relative e distances.

English:This is to help reduce vibrations during printing. If your printer has a resonance frequency that is causing trouble you can set this to try and reduce printing at that frequency.
Translated:This is to help reduce vibrations during printing. If your printer has a resonance frequency that is causing trouble you can set this to try and reduce printing at that frequency.

English:This will cause the extruder to move while retracting to minimize blobs.
Translated:This will cause the extruder to move while retracting to minimize blobs.

English:This value will be added to all of the z positions of the created gcode.
Translated:This value will be added to all of the z positions of the created gcode.

English:Print
Translated:Print

English:Layers/Perimeters
Translated:Layers/Perimeters

English:Layer Height
Translated:Layer Height

English:Perimeters (minimum)
Translated:Perimeters (minimum)

English:Vertical Shells
Translated:Vertical Shells

English:Infill
Translated:Infill

English:Fill Density
Translated:Fill Density

English:Fill Pattern
Translated:Fill Pattern

English:Support Material
Translated:Support Material

English:Generate Support Material
Translated:Generate Support Material

English:Filament
Translated:Filament

English:Diameter
Translated:Diameter

English:Extrude First Layer
Translated:Extrude First Layer

English:Extruder Other Layers
Translated:Extruder Other Layers

English:Bed First Layer
Translated:Bed First Layer

English:Bed Other Layers
Translated:Bed Other Layers

English:Temperature (�C)
Translated:Temperature (�C)

English:Cooling
Translated:Cooling

English:Enable Auto Cooling
Translated:Enable Auto Cooling

English:Enable
Translated:Enable

English:Printer
Translated:Printer

English:General
Translated:General

English:Bed Size
Translated:Bed Size

English:Print Center
Translated:Print Center

English:Build Height
Translated:Build Height

English:Size and Coordinates
Translated:Size and Coordinates

English:Extruder 1
Translated:Extruder 1

English:Nozzle Diameter
Translated:Nozzle Diameter

English:Size
Translated:Size

English:Configuration
Translated:Configuration

English:EEProm Settings
Translated:EEProm Settings

English:CONFIGURE
Translated:CONFIGURE

English:Automatic Calibration
Translated:Automatic Calibration

English:ENABLE
Translated:ENABLE

English:DISABLE
Translated:DISABLE

English:Enable Automatic Print Leveling
Translated:Enable Automatic Print Leveling

English:Automatic Print Leveling (disabled)
Translated:Automatic Print Leveling (disabled)

English:Extruder Temperature
Translated:Extruder Temperature

English:View Manual Printer Controls and Slicing Settings
Translated:View Manual Printer Controls and Slicing Settings

English:View Queue and Library
Translated:View Queue and Library

English:Bed Temperature
Translated:Bed Temperature

English:This gcode will be inserted when the print is canceled.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted when the print is canceled.

English:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is paused.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is paused.

English:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is resumed.
Translated:This gcode will be inserted when the printer is resumed.

English:Print Time
Translated:Print Time

English:Filament Length
Translated:Filament Length

English:Filament Volume
Translated:Filament Volume

English:Weight
Translated:Weight

English:Show Grid
Translated:Show Grid

English:Show Moves
Translated:Show Moves

English:Show Retractions
Translated:Show Retractions

English:Go
Translated:Go

English:start:
Translated:start:

English:end:
Translated:end:

English:There is a recommended update available.
Translated:There is a recommended update available.

English:Layer View
Translated:Layer View

English:Connect to Printer
Translated:Connect to Printer

English:Choose a 3D Printer Configuration
Translated:Choose a 3D Printer Configuration

English:Unavailable
Translated:Unavailable

English:Refresh
Translated:Refresh

English:Automatic Print Leveling (enabled)
Translated:Automatic Print Leveling (enabled)

English:Connecting
Translated:Connecting

English:Status: {0} - {1}
Translated:Status: {0} - {1}

English:edit
Translated:edit

English:remove
Translated:remove

English:Printer Name
Translated:Printer Name

English:(refresh)
Translated:(refresh)

English:Serial Port
Translated:Serial Port

English:Baud Rate
Translated:Baud Rate

English:Other
Translated:Other

English:Printer Make
Translated:Printer Make

English:Printer Model
Translated:Printer Model

English:Auto Connect
Translated:Auto Connect

English:Preparing To Print
Translated:Preparing To Print

English:Preparing to slice model
Translated:Preparing to slice model

English:Printing
Translated:Printing

English:Filter Output
Translated:Filter Output

English:Auto Uppercase
Translated:Auto Uppercase

English:Send
Translated:Send

English:MatterControl - Terminal
Translated:MatterControl - Terminal

English:First Layer Height
Translated:First Layer Height

English:Spiral Vase
Translated:Spiral Vase

English:Number of Solid Layers\non the Top:
Translated:Number of Solid Layers\non the Top:

English:Number of Solid Layers\non the Bottom:
Translated:Number of Solid Layers\non the Bottom:

English:Horizontal Shells
Translated:Horizontal Shells

English:Speed
Translated:Speed

English:Perimeters
Translated:Perimeters

English:Speed for Print Moves
Translated:Speed for Print Moves

English:Travel
Translated:Travel

English:Speed for non Print Moves
Translated:Speed for non Print Moves

English:First Layer Speed
Translated:First Layer Speed

English:Modifiers
Translated:Modifiers

English:Skirt and Brim
Translated:Skirt and Brim

English:Loops
Translated:Loops

English:Distance from Object
Translated:Distance from Object

English:Minimum Extrusion Length
Translated:Minimum Extrusion Length

English:Skirt
Translated:Skirt

English:Overhang Threshold
Translated:Overhang Threshold

English:Pattern Spacing
Translated:Pattern Spacing

English:X and Y Distance
Translated:X and Y Distance

English:Z Distance
Translated:Z Distance

English:Internal Support
Translated:Internal Support

English:Notes
Translated:Notes

English:Output Options
Translated:Output Options

English:Multiple Extruders
Translated:Multiple Extruders

English:Advanced
Translated:Advanced

English:Enable Extruder Lift
Translated:Enable Extruder Lift

English:Min Fan Speed
Translated:Min Fan Speed

English:Max Fan Speed
Translated:Max Fan Speed

English:Disable Fan For The First
Translated:Disable Fan For The First

English:Fan Speed
Translated:Fan Speed

English:Slow Down If Layer Print\nTime Is Below
Translated:Slow Down If Layer Print\nTime Is Below

English:Cooling Thresholds
Translated:Cooling Thresholds

English:Bed Shape
Translated:Bed Shape

English:Custom G-Code
Translated:Custom G-Code

English:Start G-Code
Translated:Start G-Code

English:End G-Code
Translated:End G-Code

English:Length
Translated:Length

English:Minimum Travel After\nRetraction
Translated:Minimum Travel After\nRetraction

English:Min Extrusion
Translated:Min Extrusion

English:Retraction
Translated:Retraction

English:Generate Extra Perimeters\nWhen Needed:
Translated:Generate Extra Perimeters\nWhen Needed:

English:Avoid Crossing Perimeters
Translated:Avoid Crossing Perimeters

English:Start At Concave Points
Translated:Start At Concave Points

English:Start At Non Overhang
Translated:Start At Non Overhang

English:Thin Walls
Translated:Thin Walls

English:Quality (slower slicing)
Translated:Quality (slower slicing)

English:Randomize Starting Points
Translated:Randomize Starting Points

English:External Perimeters First
Translated:External Perimeters First

English:Top/Bottom Fill Pattern
Translated:Top/Bottom Fill Pattern

English:Infill Every
Translated:Infill Every

English:Only Infill Where Needed
Translated:Only Infill Where Needed

English:Solid Infill Every
Translated:Solid Infill Every

English:Fill Angle
Translated:Fill Angle

English:Solid Infill Threshold Area
Translated:Solid Infill Threshold Area

English:Only Retract When\nCrossing Perimeters
Translated:Only Retract When\nCrossing Perimeters

English:Do Infill Before Perimeters
Translated:Do Infill Before Perimeters

English:Small Perimeters
Translated:Small Perimeters

English:External Perimeters
Translated:External Perimeters

English:Solid Infill
Translated:Solid Infill

English:Top Solid Infill
Translated:Top Solid Infill

English:Bridges
Translated:Bridges

English:Gap Fill
Translated:Gap Fill

English:Min Print Speed
Translated:Min Print Speed

English:Bridge
Translated:Bridge

English:First Layer
Translated:First Layer

English:Default
Translated:Default

English:Acceleration Control
Translated:Acceleration Control

English:Skirt Height
Translated:Skirt Height

English:Brim Width
Translated:Brim Width

English:Brim
Translated:Brim

English:Enforce Support For First
Translated:Enforce Support For First

English:Raft Layers
Translated:Raft Layers

English:Raft
Translated:Raft

English:Pattern
Translated:Pattern

English:Pattern Angle
Translated:Pattern Angle

English:Interface Layers
Translated:Interface Layers

English:Interface Pattern Spacing
Translated:Interface Pattern Spacing

English:Complete Individual Objects
Translated:Complete Individual Objects

English:Extruder Clearance Height
Translated:Extruder Clearance Height

English:Extruder Clearance Radius
Translated:Extruder Clearance Radius

English:Sequential Printing
Translated:Sequential Printing

English:Verbose G-Code
Translated:Verbose G-Code

English:Output File Name Format
Translated:Output File Name Format

English:Output File
Translated:Output File

English:Post-Processing Scripts
Translated:Post-Processing Scripts

English:Perimeter Extruder
Translated:Perimeter Extruder

English:Infill Extruder
Translated:Infill Extruder

English:Support Material Extruder
Translated:Support Material Extruder

English:Support Interface Extruder
Translated:Support Interface Extruder

English:Extruders
Translated:Extruders

English:Temp Lower Amount
Translated:Temp Lower Amount

English:Ooze Prevention
Translated:Ooze Prevention

English:Default Extrusion Width
Translated:Default Extrusion Width

English:Extrusion Width
Translated:Extrusion Width

English:Bridge Flow Ratio
Translated:Bridge Flow Ratio

English:Flow
Translated:Flow

English:Threads
Translated:Threads

English:Resolution
Translated:Resolution

English:Extrusion Axis
Translated:Extrusion Axis

English:Optimize Overhangs
Translated:Optimize Overhangs

English:Keep Fan Always On
Translated:Keep Fan Always On

English:Bridging Fan Speed
Translated:Bridging Fan Speed

English:Enable Fan If Layer\nPrint Time Is Below
Translated:Enable Fan If Layer\nPrint Time Is Below

English:Z Offset
Translated:Z Offset

English:G-Code Flavor
Translated:G-Code Flavor

English:Use Relative E Distances
Translated:Use Relative E Distances

English:Use Arcs
Translated:Use Arcs

English:Use G0
Translated:Use G0

English:Firmware
Translated:Firmware

English:Use Firmware Retraction
Translated:Use Firmware Retraction

English:Vibration Limit
Translated:Vibration Limit

English:Layer Change G-Code
Translated:Layer Change G-Code

English:Tool Change G-Code
Translated:Tool Change G-Code

English:Pause G-Code
Translated:Pause G-Code

English:Resume G-Code
Translated:Resume G-Code

English:Cancel G-Code
Translated:Cancel G-Code

English:Extruder Offset
Translated:Extruder Offset

English:Position (for multi-extrude printers)
Translated:Position (for multi-extrude printers)

English:Change Tool
Translated:Change Tool

English:Z Lift
Translated:Z Lift

English:Extra Length On Restart
Translated:Extra Length On Restart

English:Retract on Layer Change
Translated:Retract on Layer Change

English:Wipe Before Retract
Translated:Wipe Before Retract

English:Retraction When Tool is Disabled (for multi-extruders)
Translated:Retraction When Tool is Disabled (for multi-extruders)

English:Paused
Translated:Paused

English:Printing Paused
Translated:Printing Paused

English:Ok
Translated:Ok

English:Finished Print
Translated:Finished Print

English:Done Printing
Translated:Done Printing

English:Save As
Translated:Save As

English:Installed Plugins
Translated:Installed Plugins

English:Select a Design Tool
Translated:Select a Design Tool
English:Temperature (C)
Translated:Temperature (C)

English:Language Settings
Translated:Language Settings

English:Select Model
Translated:Select Model

English:Theme Settings
Translated:Theme Settings

English:New updates are ready to install.
Translated:New updates are ready to install.

English:Select Language
Translated:Select Language

English:File not found on disk.
Translated:File not found on disk.

English:Not connected. Press 'Connect' to enable printing.
Translated:Not connected. Press 'Connect' to enable printing.

English:Loading Parts
Translated:Loading Parts

English:CONNECT
Translated:CONNECT

English:DISCONNECT
Translated:DISCONNECT

English:OPTIONS
Translated:OPTIONS

English:QUEUE
Translated:QUEUE

English:STATUS
Translated:STATUS

English:CONTROLS
Translated:CONTROLS

English:SLICE SETTINGS
Translated:SLICE SETTINGS

English:CONFIGURATION
Translated:CONFIGURATION

English:MODEL
Translated:MODEL

English:LAYER
Translated:LAYER

English:DISPLAY
Translated:DISPLAY

English:PRINT TIME
Translated:PRINT TIME

English:FILAMENT LENGTH
Translated:FILAMENT LENGTH

English:FILAMENT VOLUME
Translated:FILAMENT VOLUME

English:WEIGHT
Translated:WEIGHT

English:EST. WEIGHT
Translated:EST. WEIGHT

English:Saving
Translated:Saving

English:Export File
Translated:Export File

English:File export options
Translated:File export options

English:Export as
Translated:Export as

English:Show file in folder after save
Translated:Show file in folder after save

English:HISTORY
Translated:HISTORY

English:LIBRARY
Translated:LIBRARY

English:Developed By: 
Translated:Developed By: 

English: to help support MatterControl.
Translated: to help support MatterControl.

English:ABOUT
Translated:ABOUT

English:Oops! Could not find this file
Translated:Oops! Could not find this file

English:Would you like to remove it from the queue
Translated:Would you like to remove it from the queue

English:Item not Found
Translated:Item not Found

English:Yes
Translated:Yes

English:No
Translated:No

English:History
Translated:History

English:Slicing Error. Please review your slice settings.
Translated:Slicing Error. Please review your slice settings.

English:Quality
Translated:Quality

English:First Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.
Translated:First Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.

English:This will cause the print to be centered on the bed. Disable this if you know your models have been created where you want them to print.
Translated:This will cause the print to be centered on the bed. Disable this if you know your models have been created where you want them to print.

English:Center On Bed
Translated:Center On Bed

English:Center Print
Translated:Center Print

English:Note
Translated:Note

English:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile.
Translated:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile.

English:The amount to remove from the bottom of the model
Translated:The amount to remove from the bottom of the model

English:The amount the infill edge will push into the preimiter. Helps ensure the infill is connected to the edge.
Translated:The amount the infill edge will push into the preimiter. Helps ensure the infill is connected to the edge.

English:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop. Make this 0 to create an anchor for the part to the bed.
Translated:The distance to start drawing the first skirt loop. Make this 0 to create an anchor for the part to the bed.

English:Bottom Clip
Translated:Bottom Clip

English:Infill Overlap
Translated:Infill Overlap

English:Inside Perimeters
Translated:Inside Perimeters

English:Outside Perimeter
Translated:Outside Perimeter

English:Sets the default movement speed while printing inside perimeters.
Translated:Sets the default movement speed while printing inside perimeters.

English:The type of support to create for surfaces that need it.
Translated:The type of support to create for surfaces that need it.

English:Support Type
Translated:Support Type

English:Top & Bottom Layers
Translated:Top & Bottom Layers

English:
Translated:

English:gcode_output_type
Translated:gcode_output_type

English:Starting Angle
Translated:Starting Angle

English:The space between the lines of the support material.
Translated:The space between the lines of the support material.

English:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support.
Translated:The last angle at which support material will be generated. Larger numbers will result in more support.

English:Add Printer
Translated:Add Printer

English:If greater than 0, this is the distance away from parts to create a parimeter to wipe when entering.
Translated:If greater than 0, this is the distance away from parts to create a parimeter to wipe when entering.

English:Wipe Shield Dist
Translated:Wipe Shield Dist

English:Wipe Shield
Translated:Wipe Shield

English:  Remove All
Translated:  Remove All

English:The number of layers to skip in z. The gap between the support and the model.
Translated:The number of layers to skip in z. The gap between the support and the model.

English:Z Gap
Translated:Z Gap

English:Print Again
Translated:Print Again

English:Turns on and off the creation of a raft which can help parts adhear to the bed.
Translated:Turns on and off the creation of a raft which can help parts adhear to the bed.

English:Enable Raft
Translated:Enable Raft

English:Create Raft
Translated:Create Raft

English:The amount of overhangs to support. 0 is no support 100 is support every overhang regardless of angle.
Translated:The amount of overhangs to support. 0 is no support 100 is support every overhang regardless of angle.

English:Overhang Percent
Translated:Overhang Percent

English:support_material_overhang_percent
Translated:support_material_overhang_percent

English:Device
Translated:Device

English:Material
Translated:Material

English:Item
Translated:Item

English:Wipe Shield Distance
Translated:Wipe Shield Distance

English: Remove All
Translated: Remove All

English:Slice Presets Editor
Translated:Slice Presets Editor

English:Attempting to Connect
Translated:Attempting to Connect

English:Making Copy
Translated:Making Copy

English:Arranging Parts
Translated:Arranging Parts

English:Only Show Completed
Translated:Only Show Completed

English:Show Timestamp
Translated:Show Timestamp

English:Render Type
Translated:Render Type

English:Shaded
Translated:Shaded

English:Outlines
Translated:Outlines

English:Polygons
Translated:Polygons

English:New updates may be available.
Translated:New updates may be available.

English:Unable to communicate with printer.
Translated:Unable to communicate with printer.

English:Item selected. Press 'Start' to begin your print.
Translated:Item selected. Press 'Start' to begin your print.

English:Disconnecting
Translated:Disconnecting

English:Leveling Settings
Translated:Leveling Settings

English:Movement Speeds Presets
Translated:Movement Speeds Presets

English:Axis
Translated:Axis

English:Sampled Positions
Translated:Sampled Positions

English:Position
Translated:Position

English:Do not show this again
Translated:Do not show this again

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nGCode files tell your printer exactly what to do.  They are not modified by SliceSettings and my not be appropriate for your specific printer configuration.\n\nOnly print from GCode files if you know they mach your current printer and configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nGCode files tell your printer exactly what to do.  They are not modified by SliceSettings and my not be appropriate for your specific printer configuration.\n\nOnly print from GCode files if you know they mach your current printer and configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?

English:Cannot find\n'{0}'.\nWould you like to remove it from the queue?
Translated:Cannot find\n'{0}'.\nWould you like to remove it from the queue?

English:Item not found
Translated:Item not found

English:Welcome to the print leveling wizard. Here is a quick overview on what we are going to do.
Translated:Welcome to the print leveling wizard. Here is a quick overview on what we are going to do.

English:'Home' the printer
Translated:'Home' the printer

English:Sample the bed at three points
Translated:Sample the bed at three points

English:Turn auto leveling on
Translated:Turn auto leveling on

English:You should be done in about 3 minutes.
Translated:You should be done in about 3 minutes.

English:Click 'Next' to continue.
Translated:Click 'Next' to continue.

English:The printer should now be 'homing'. Once it is finished homing we will move it to the first point to sample.\n\nTo complete the next few steps you will need
Translated:The printer should now be 'homing'. Once it is finished homing we will move it to the first point to sample.\n\nTo complete the next few steps you will need

English:A standard sheet of paper
Translated:A standard sheet of paper

English:We will use this paper to measure the distance between the extruder and the bed.\n\nClick 'Next' to continue.
Translated:We will use this paper to measure the distance between the extruder and the bed.\n\nClick 'Next' to continue.

English:Congratulations!\n\nAuto Print Leveling is now configured and enabled.
Translated:Congratulations!\n\nAuto Print Leveling is now configured and enabled.

English:Remove the paper
Translated:Remove the paper

English:If in the future you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can uncheck the 'Enabled' button found in 'Advanced Settings'->'Printer Controls'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:If in the future you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can uncheck the 'Enabled' button found in 'Advanced Settings'->'Printer Controls'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.

English:Step
Translated:Step

English:of
Translated:of

English:Print Leveling Wizard
Translated:Print Leveling Wizard

English:Back
Translated:Back

English:Next
Translated:Next

English:Low Precision
Translated:Low Precision

English:Using the [Z] controls on this screen, we will now take a coarse measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:Using the [Z] controls on this screen, we will now take a coarse measurement of the extruder height at this position.

English:Place the paper under the extruder
Translated:Place the paper under the extruder

English:Using the above contols
Translated:Using the above contols

English:Press [Z-] until there is resistance to moving the paper
Translated:Press [Z-] until there is resistance to moving the paper

English:Press [Z+] once to release the paper
Translated:Press [Z+] once to release the paper

English:Finally click 'Next' to continue.
Translated:Finally click 'Next' to continue.

English:This part of your bed is too low for the extruder to reach it. You need to raise your bed, or lower your limit, for print leveling to work.
Translated:This part of your bed is too low for the extruder to reach it. You need to raise your bed, or lower your limit, for print leveling to work.

English:Waring Moving Too Low
Translated:Waring Moving Too Low

English:Medium Precision
Translated:Medium Precision

English:We will now refine our measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:We will now refine our measurement of the extruder height at this position.

English:High Precision
Translated:High Precision

English:We will now finalize our measurement of the extruder height at this position.
Translated:We will now finalize our measurement of the extruder height at this position.

English:Press [Z-] one click PAST the first hint of resistance
Translated:Press [Z-] one click PAST the first hint of resistance

English:Save Parts Sheet
Translated:Save Parts Sheet

English:MatterContol
Translated:MatterContol

English:Saving to Parts Sheet
Translated:Saving to Parts Sheet

English:Stop trying to connect to the printer
Translated:Stop trying to connect to the printer

English:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer
Translated:No printer selected.  Press 'Connect' to choose a printer

English:About                                             
Translated:About                                             

English:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging.Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.
Translated:This controls the ratio of material extruder during bridging.Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, using a fan can also help greatly.

English:The default temperature to set the bed to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:The default temperature to set the bed to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.

English:The default temperature to set the extruder to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer.
Translated:The default temperature to set the extruder to. Can sometimes be overriden on the first layer.

English:Macro Editor
Translated:Macro Editor

English:Macro Presets
Translated:Macro Presets

English:Edit Macro
Translated:Edit Macro

English:Macro Name
Translated:Macro Name

English:Give your macro a name
Translated:Give your macro a name

English:Macro Commands
Translated:Macro Commands

English:This should be in 'Gcode'
Translated:This should be in 'Gcode'

English:3D Printer Setup
Translated:3D Printer Setup

English:Give your printer a name.
Translated:Give your printer a name.

English:Select Make
Translated:Select Make

English:Select the printer manufacturer
Translated:Select the printer manufacturer

English:Select the printer model
Translated:Select the printer model

English:Save & Continue
Translated:Save & Continue

English:MatterControl will now attempt to auto-detect printer.
Translated:MatterControl will now attempt to auto-detect printer.

English:Disconnect printer
Translated:Disconnect printer

English:if currently connected
Translated:if currently connected

English:Press
Translated:Press

English:Continue
Translated:Continue

English:Manual Configuration
Translated:Manual Configuration

English:Setup Manual Configuration
Translated:Setup Manual Configuration

English:or
Translated:or

English:Skip Printer Connection
Translated:Skip Printer Connection

English:You can either
Translated:You can either

English:You can also
Translated:You can also

English:Extruder Temperature Settings
Translated:Extruder Temperature Settings

English:Temperature Shortcut Presets
Translated:Temperature Shortcut Presets

English:Label
Translated:Label

English:Preset
Translated:Preset

English:Max Temp.
Translated:Max Temp.

English:Bed Temperature Settings
Translated:Bed Temperature Settings

English:Movement Speeds
Translated:Movement Speeds

English:Extruder
Translated:Extruder

English:Power on and connect printer
Translated:Power on and connect printer

English:Attempting to connect
Translated:Attempting to connect

English:Connection succeeded
Translated:Connection succeeded

English:You cannot move any lower. This position on your bed is too low for the extruder to reach. You need to raise your bed, or adjust your limits to allow the extruder to go lower.
Translated:You cannot move any lower. This position on your bed is too low for the extruder to reach. You need to raise your bed, or adjust your limits to allow the extruder to go lower.

English:Edit Preset
Translated:Edit Preset

English:Slice-Engine
Translated:Slice-Engine

English:Status: Completed
Translated:Status: Completed

English:Unlock
Translated:Unlock

English:Show Terminal
Translated:Show Terminal

English:Configure
Translated:Configure

English:Disable
Translated:Disable

English:Est. Weight
Translated:Est. Weight

English:Downloading updates...
Translated:Downloading updates...

English:Duplicate
Translated:Duplicate

English:End
Translated:End

English:The type of support to create inside of parts.
Translated:The type of support to create inside of parts.

English:Infill Type
Translated:Infill Type

English:Release Options
Translated:Release Options

English:No items to select. Press 'Add' to select a file to print.
Translated:No items to select. Press 'Add' to select a file to print.

English:Unknown
Translated:Unknown

English:Press 'Add' to select an item.
Translated:Press 'Add' to select an item.

English:Shop
Translated:Shop

English:Slicing Error
Translated:Slicing Error

English:Ready to Print
Translated:Ready to Print

English:File Not Found\n'{0}'
Translated:File Not Found\n'{0}'

English:Slicing Error.\nPlease review your slice settings.
Translated:Slicing Error.\nPlease review your slice settings.

English:Special thanks to:
Translated:Special thanks to:

English:Alessandro Ranellucci for 
Translated:Alessandro Ranellucci for 

English:David Braam and Ultimaker BV for 
Translated:David Braam and Ultimaker BV for 

English:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile
Translated:To enable GCode export, select a printer profile

English:MatterControl: Submit an Issue
Translated:MatterControl: Submit an Issue

English:Submit
Translated:Submit

English:How can we help?
Translated:How can we help?

English:Submitting your information...
Translated:Submitting your information...

English:Question*
Translated:Question*

English:Briefly describe your question
Translated:Briefly describe your question

English:Details*
Translated:Details*

English:Fill in the details here
Translated:Fill in the details here

English:Your Email Address*
Translated:Your Email Address*

English:Your Name*
Translated:Your Name*

English:Version 
Translated:Version 

English:Developed by:
Translated:Developed by:

English:Send FeedBack
Translated:Send FeedBack

English:Build: 
Translated:Build: 

English:Update Feed
Translated:Update Feed

English:File
Translated:File

English:Import File
Translated:Import File

English:Exit
Translated:Exit

English:Help
Translated:Help

English:Getting Started
Translated:Getting Started

English:View Help
Translated:View Help

English:Manually Configure Connection
Translated:Manually Configure Connection

English:Skip Connection Setup
Translated:Skip Connection Setup

English:Currently available serial ports.
Translated:Currently available serial ports.

English:What's this?
Translated:What's this?

English:The 'Serial Port' identifies which connected device is\nyour printer. Changing which usb plug you use may\nchange the associated serial port.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain, plug-in in your printer and hit\nrefresh. The new port that appears should be your\nprinter.
Translated:The 'Serial Port' identifies which connected device is\nyour printer. Changing which usb plug you use may\nchange the associated serial port.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain, plug-in in your printer and hit\nrefresh. The new port that appears should be your\nprinter.

English:Connection succeeded!
Translated:Connection succeeded!

English:Oops! Unable to install update.
Translated:Oops! Unable to install update.

English:Motor de Capas
Translated:Motor de Capas

English:Your application is up-to-date.
Translated:Your application is up-to-date.

English:Install Communication Driver
Translated:Install Communication Driver

English:This printer requires a driver for communication.
Translated:This printer requires a driver for communication.

English:Driver located. Would you like to install?
Translated:Driver located. Would you like to install?

English:Install Driver
Translated:Install Driver

English:Apply
Translated:Apply

English:Buy Materials
Translated:Buy Materials

English:Select an STL file
Translated:Select an STL file

English:Add File
Translated:Add File

English:Time
Translated:Time

English:Press 'Connect' to select a printer.
Translated:Press 'Connect' to select a printer.

English:Marlin Firmware EEPROM Settings
Translated:Marlin Firmware EEPROM Settings

English:Re-Load Default Settings
Translated:Re-Load Default Settings

English:Set Default To Factory Settings
Translated:Set Default To Factory Settings

English:Steps per mm:
Translated:Steps per mm:

English:Maximum feedrates [mm/s]:
Translated:Maximum feedrates [mm/s]:

English:Maximum Acceleration [mm/s²]:
Translated:Maximum Acceleration [mm/s²]:

English:Acceleration:
Translated:Acceleration:

English:Retract Acceleration:
Translated:Retract Acceleration:

English:PID settings:
Translated:PID settings:

English:Homing Offset:
Translated:Homing Offset:

English:Min feedrate [mm/s]:
Translated:Min feedrate [mm/s]:

English:Min travel feedrate [mm/s]:
Translated:Min travel feedrate [mm/s]:

English:Minimum segment time [ms]:
Translated:Minimum segment time [ms]:

English:Maximum X-Y jerk [mm/s]:
Translated:Maximum X-Y jerk [mm/s]:

English:Maximum Z jerk [mm/s]:
Translated:Maximum Z jerk [mm/s]:

English:Make Settings Active
Translated:Make Settings Active

English:Make Settings Active\nAnd Save To Default
Translated:Make Settings Active\nAnd Save To Default

English:Design Add-ons
Translated:Design Add-ons

English:Lock Ratio
Translated:Lock Ratio

English:Retrieving download info...
Translated:Retrieving download info...

English:G-Code Output
Translated:G-Code Output

English:The extra distance the raft will extend around the part.
Translated:The extra distance the raft will extend around the part.

English:The percent of the 'Nozzle Diameter' that is the gap between the raft and the first layer. A smaller percent will make the part stick more. A larger percent will make it stick less.
Translated:The percent of the 'Nozzle Diameter' that is the gap between the raft and the first layer. A smaller percent will make the part stick more. A larger percent will make it stick less.

English:Distance
Translated:Distance

English:Gap Percent
Translated:Gap Percent

English:Try to connect mesh edges when the actual mesh data is not all the way connected.
Translated:Try to connect mesh edges when the actual mesh data is not all the way connected.

English:Sometime a mesh will not have closed a perimeters. When this is checked these non-closed perimeters while be closed.
Translated:Sometime a mesh will not have closed a perimeters. When this is checked these non-closed perimeters while be closed.

English:Reverse the orientation of overlaps. This can make some unintended holes go away.
Translated:Reverse the orientation of overlaps. This can make some unintended holes go away.

English:Make all overlap areas into one big area. This can make some unintended holes go away..
Translated:Make all overlap areas into one big area. This can make some unintended holes go away..

English:Repair
Translated:Repair

English:Connect Bad Edges
Translated:Connect Bad Edges

English:Close Polygons
Translated:Close Polygons

English:Reverse Orientation
Translated:Reverse Orientation

English:Merge All
Translated:Merge All

English:Overlaps
Translated:Overlaps

English:The distance between the first layer and the top of the raft. A good value is typically about 1/2 your extrusion diameter. So, between 0.0 and .2 for a .4 nozzle.
Translated:The distance between the first layer and the top of the raft. A good value is typically about 1/2 your extrusion diameter. So, between 0.0 and .2 for a .4 nozzle.

English:Air Gap
Translated:Air Gap

English:Outline Distance
Translated:Outline Distance

English:Distance Around Object
Translated:Distance Around Object

English:Minimum Travel\nRequiring Retraction
Translated:Minimum Travel\nRequiring Retraction

English:Show Printing
Translated:Show Printing

English:Show Current
Translated:Show Current

English:Printer Sync
Translated:Printer Sync

English:Sync To Print
Translated:Sync To Print

English:Layers
Translated:Layers

English:Show 3D
Translated:Show 3D

English:Uh-oh! Could not connect to printer.
Translated:Uh-oh! Could not connect to printer.

English:Installing
Translated:Installing

English:Initial Printer Setup
Translated:Initial Printer Setup

English:Homing The Printer
Translated:Homing The Printer

English:If in the future you need to re-calibrate your printer, or you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can find the print leveling controls in 'Advanced Settings'->'Configuration'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:If in the future you need to re-calibrate your printer, or you wish to turn Auto Print Leveling off, you can find the print leveling controls in 'Advanced Settings'->'Configuration'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.

English:Print Leveling Overview
Translated:Print Leveling Overview

English:Note: Be sure the tip of the extrude is clean.
Translated:Note: Be sure the tip of the extrude is clean.

English:Title Stuff
Translated:Title Stuff

English:Oops! You cannot exit while a print is active.
Translated:Oops! You cannot exit while a print is active.

English:Unable to Exit
Translated:Unable to Exit

English:You are currently saving a parts sheet, are you sure you want to exit?
Translated:You are currently saving a parts sheet, are you sure you want to exit?

English:Confirm Exit
Translated:Confirm Exit

English:Disconnect and cancel the current print?
Translated:Disconnect and cancel the current print?

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the current print.\n\nDo you want to disconnect?
Translated:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the current print.\n\nDo you want to disconnect?

English:Note: Slice Settings are applied before the print actually starts. Changes while printing will not effect the active print.
Translated:Note: Slice Settings are applied before the print actually starts. Changes while printing will not effect the active print.

English:The extruder is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting extruder temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}
Translated:The extruder is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting extruder temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}

English:Waiting For Extruder To Heat
Translated:Waiting For Extruder To Heat

English:The bed is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting bed temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}
Translated:The bed is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting bed temperature in 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament'.\n\n{1}

English:Waiting For Bed To Heat
Translated:Waiting For Bed To Heat

English:Cancel the current print?
Translated:Cancel the current print?

English:Cancel Print?
Translated:Cancel Print?

English:There is a recommended update avalible for MatterControl. Would you like to download it now?
Translated:There is a recommended update avalible for MatterControl. Would you like to download it now?

English:Recommended Update Available
Translated:Recommended Update Available

English:Download Now
Translated:Download Now

English:Remind Me Later
Translated:Remind Me Later

English:Oops! There is no eeprom mapping for your printer's firmware.
Translated:Oops! There is no eeprom mapping for your printer's firmware.

English:Warning no eeprom mapping
Translated:Warning no eeprom mapping

English:Sample the bed at two points
Translated:Sample the bed at two points

English:You should be done in about 2 minutes.
Translated:You should be done in about 2 minutes.

English:Alert
Translated:Alert

English:Input Required
Translated:Input Required

English:Apply leveling to gcode during export
Translated:Apply leveling to gcode during export

English:File export options:
Translated:File export options:

English:Report a Bug
Translated:Report a Bug

English:About MatterControl
Translated:About MatterControl

English:Oops! Printer could not be detected 
Translated:Oops! Printer could not be detected 

English: Load Files
Translated: Load Files

English: Eject SD Card
Translated: Eject SD Card

English:Show Voxels
Translated:Show Voxels

English:Show Mesh
Translated:Show Mesh

English:Do Subtract
Translated:Do Subtract

English:Specify if your printer has a fan.
Translated:Specify if your printer has a fan.

English:Specify if your printer has a heated bed.
Translated:Specify if your printer has a heated bed.

English:Specify if your printer has the ability to plug in an SD card.
Translated:Specify if your printer has the ability to plug in an SD card.

English:Has Fan
Translated:Has Fan

English:Has Heated Bed
Translated:Has Heated Bed

English:Has SD Card Reader
Translated:Has SD Card Reader

English:Cloud Services
Translated:Cloud Services

English:Cloud Monitoring (disabled)
Translated:Cloud Monitoring (disabled)

English:Cloud Monitoring (enabled)
Translated:Cloud Monitoring (enabled)

English:First Layer Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.
Translated:First Layer Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.

English:Export to SD Card
Translated:Export to SD Card

English:Notification Settings
Translated:Notification Settings

English:After a Print is Finished:
Translated:After a Print is Finished:

English:Saving your settings...
Translated:Saving your settings...

English:Send an SMS notification
Translated:Send an SMS notification

English:Experimental
Translated:Experimental

English:Have MatterControl send you a text message after your print is finished
Translated:Have MatterControl send you a text message after your print is finished

English:Your Phone Number*
Translated:Your Phone Number*

English:A U.S. or Canadian mobile phone number
Translated:A U.S. or Canadian mobile phone number

English:Send an email notification
Translated:Send an email notification

English:Have MatterControl send you an email message after your print is finished
Translated:Have MatterControl send you an email message after your print is finished

English:A valid email address
Translated:A valid email address

English:Play a Sound
Translated:Play a Sound

English:Play a sound after your print is finished
Translated:Play a sound after your print is finished

English:Printing From SD Card
Translated:Printing From SD Card

English:Would you also like to remove this file from the Printer's SD Card?
Translated:Would you also like to remove this file from the Printer's SD Card?

English:Export to Printer SD Card
Translated:Export to Printer SD Card

English:Preparing To Send To SD Card
Translated:Preparing To Send To SD Card

English:Sending To SD Card
Translated:Sending To SD Card

English:Exporting to Folder
Translated:Exporting to Folder

English:Warning GCode file
Translated:Warning GCode file

English:Release Notes
Translated:Release Notes

English:More Info
Translated:More Info

English:Go To Status
Translated:Go To Status

English:View Status
Translated:View Status

English:Description
Translated:Description

English:Value
Translated:Value

English:Save To EEPROM
Translated:Save To EEPROM

English:Firmware EEPROM Settings
Translated:Firmware EEPROM Settings

English:Save to EEPROM
Translated:Save to EEPROM

English:Select the baud rate.
Translated:Select the baud rate.

English:The term 'Baud Rate' roughly means the speed at which\ndata is transmitted.  Baud rates may differ from printer to\nprinter. Refer to your printer manual for more info.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain - try 250000.
Translated:The term 'Baud Rate' roughly means the speed at which\ndata is transmitted.  Baud rates may differ from printer to\nprinter. Refer to your printer manual for more info.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain - try 250000.

English:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a retraction can occur.
Translated:This is the minimum amount of filament that must be extruded before a retraction can occur.

English:Support Options
Translated:Support Options

English:If this is checked support will be allowed starting on top of internal surfaces. If it is not checked support will only be created starting at the bed.
Translated:If this is checked support will be allowed starting on top of internal surfaces. If it is not checked support will only be created starting at the bed.

English:Support Everywhere
Translated:Support Everywhere

English:The angle the support infill will be drawn.
Translated:The angle the support infill will be drawn.

English:Infill Angle
Translated:Infill Angle

English:Grid
Translated:Grid

English:Moves
Translated:Moves

English:Retractions
Translated:Retractions

English:Speeds
Translated:Speeds

English:Extrusion
Translated:Extrusion
English:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on
Translated:Special thanks to Alessandro Ranellucci for his incredible work on

English:Dilimleme Motoru
Translated:Dilimleme Motoru

English:Clear
Translated:Clear

English:Lets the bed leveling code know if the printer can support the z axis going below 0. A printer with min z endstops or software end stops may not be able to.
Translated:Lets the bed leveling code know if the printer can support the z axis going below 0. A printer with min z endstops or software end stops may not be able to.

English:Z Can Be Negative
Translated:Z Can Be Negative

English:Export as X3G
Translated:Export as X3G

English:Select an Image
Translated:Select an Image

English:If greater than 0, this is the X by Y size of a tower to use to when changing extruders
Translated:If greater than 0, this is the X by Y size of a tower to use to when changing extruders

English:Extruder Change
Translated:Extruder Change

English:Wipe Tower Size
Translated:Wipe Tower Size

English:Sorry, we were unable to install the driver.
Translated:Sorry, we were unable to install the driver.

English:Tuning Adjustment
Translated:Tuning Adjustment

English:Release
Translated:Release

English:No printer is currently selected. Select a printer to edit slice settings.
Translated:No printer is currently selected. Select a printer to edit slice settings.

English:Part Preview
Translated:Part Preview

English:Layer Preview
Translated:Layer Preview

English:Enable Cloud Monitoring (disabled)
Translated:Enable Cloud Monitoring (disabled)

English:Warning - Moving Too Low
Translated:Warning - Moving Too Low

English:Oops! Could not find this file:
Translated:Oops! Could not find this file:

English:The number of extruders this machine has.
Translated:The number of extruders this machine has.

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 (1.1 is a good max value) will increase the amount of filament being extruded; decreasing it (.9 is a good minimum value) will decrease the amount being extruded.
Translated:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 (1.1 is a good max value) will increase the amount of filament being extruded; decreasing it (.9 is a good minimum value) will decrease the amount being extruded.

English:This is the minimum speed that the printer will reduce to to make the layer take long enough to satisfy the minimum layer time.
Translated:This is the minimum speed that the printer will reduce to to make the layer take long enough to satisfy the minimum layer time.

English:Minimum Print Speed
Translated:Minimum Print Speed

English:Skirt and Raft
Translated:Skirt and Raft

English:Length on Move
Translated:Length on Move

English:Length on Tool Change
Translated:Length on Tool Change

English:Minimum Extrusion\nRequiring Retraction
Translated:Minimum Extrusion\nRequiring Retraction

English:Minimum Fan Speed
Translated:Minimum Fan Speed

English:Extruder Count
Translated:Extruder Count

English:Hardware
Translated:Hardware

English:Search Library
Translated:Search Library

English:My Library
Translated:My Library

English:Add to Library
Translated:Add to Library

English:Group
Translated:Group

English:Ungroup
Translated:Ungroup

English:Align...
Translated:Align...

English:Selection
Translated:Selection

English:Entering Editor
Translated:Entering Editor

English:Creating Edit Data
Translated:Creating Edit Data

English:Finding Meshes
Translated:Finding Meshes

English:Preheat
Translated:Preheat

English:Extruder Temperature Override
Translated:Extruder Temperature Override

English:Bed Temperature Override
Translated:Bed Temperature Override

English:Hardware Settings
Translated:Hardware Settings

English:Cloud Settings
Translated:Cloud Settings

English:Application Settings
Translated:Application Settings

English:Update Notification Feed
Translated:Update Notification Feed

English:Pre-Release
Translated:Pre-Release

English:Development
Translated:Development

English:Language Options
Translated:Language Options

English:Change Display Mode
Translated:Change Display Mode

English:Theme/Display Options
Translated:Theme/Display Options

English:Design
Translated:Design

English:Normal
Translated:Normal

English:Touchscreen
Translated:Touchscreen

English:Theme
Translated:Theme

English:Display Options
Translated:Display Options

English:Set this if the extruders run off the same heater, if there is only one heater.
Translated:Set this if the extruders run off the same heater, if there is only one heater.

English:Share Temperature
Translated:Share Temperature

English:Export...
Translated:Export...

English:Temperature
Translated:Temperature

English:Align
Translated:Align

English:Material 1
Translated:Material 1

English:Material 2
Translated:Material 2

English:'Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.
Translated:'Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Layers/Perimeters'
Translated:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Layers/Perimeters'

English:Color {0}
Translated:Color {0}

English:Extruder {0}
Translated:Extruder {0}

English:You can specify the extrusion with or set this to a % of the main extrusion widthe. Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation.
Translated:You can specify the extrusion with or set this to a % of the main extrusion widthe. Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation.

English:Material 3
Translated:Material 3

English:Material 4
Translated:Material 4

English:Material 5
Translated:Material 5

English:Unknown Reason
Translated:Unknown Reason

English:Port already in use
Translated:Port already in use

English:Unsupported Baud Rate
Translated:Unsupported Baud Rate

English:Port not found
Translated:Port not found

English:Cancelled
Translated:Cancelled

English:You can only connect when not currently connected.
Translated:You can only connect when not currently connected.

English:Warning - No EEProm Mapping
Translated:Warning - No EEProm Mapping

English:The speed to run the fan during the printing of the raft, 0 will leave the fan off.
Translated:The speed to run the fan during the printing of the raft, 0 will leave the fan off.

English:The speed to print the layers of the raft (other than the first layer). This can be set explicitly or as a  percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:The speed to print the layers of the raft (other than the first layer). This can be set explicitly or as a  percentage of the Infill speed.

English:Preparing Meshes
Translated:Preparing Meshes

English:Grouping Meshes
Translated:Grouping Meshes

English:No COM ports available
Translated:No COM ports available

English:Stable
Translated:Stable

English:Beta
Translated:Beta

English:Alpha
Translated:Alpha

English:Ungrouping
Translated:Ungrouping

English:Grouping
Translated:Grouping

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the print.
Translated:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the print.

English:The amount the infill edge will push into the perimeter. Helps ensure the infill is connected to the edge.
Translated:The amount the infill edge will push into the perimeter. Helps ensure the infill is connected to the edge.

English:This is the diameter of your extruder nozzle.
Translated:This is the diameter of your extruder nozzle.

English:Sometime a mesh will not have closed a perimeter. When this is checked these non-closed perimeters while be closed.
Translated:Sometime a mesh will not have closed a perimeter. When this is checked these non-closed perimeters while be closed.

English:You can specify the extrusion with or set this to a % of the main extrusion width. Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation.
Translated:You can specify the extrusion with or set this to a % of the main extrusion width. Leave this as 0 to allow automatic calculation.

English:The default temperature to set the extruder to. Can sometimes be overridden on the first layer.
Translated:The default temperature to set the extruder to. Can sometimes be overridden on the first layer.

English:If greater than 0, this is the distance away from parts to create a perimeter to wipe when entering.
Translated:If greater than 0, this is the distance away from parts to create a perimeter to wipe when entering.

English:Please Confirm
Translated:Please Confirm

English:Reset to Factory Defaults
Translated:Reset to Factory Defaults

English:Save to EEProm
Translated:Save to EEProm

English:{0} is not available
Translated:{0} is not available

English:Invalid printer response
Translated:Invalid printer response

English:Could not find a selected button.
Translated:Could not find a selected button.

English:Aligning
Translated:Aligning

English:Single
Translated:Single

English:Warning - GCode file
Translated:Warning - GCode file

English:The index of the extruder to use for the raft. Setting this to 0 will use the support extruder index.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for the raft. Setting this to 0 will use the support extruder index.

English:Raft Extruder
Translated:Raft Extruder

English:None
Translated:None

English:Rectangle
Translated:Rectangle

English:Outline
Translated:Outline

English:Circle
Translated:Circle

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nGCode files tell your printer exactly what to do.  They are not modified by SliceSettings and may not be appropriate for your specific printer configuration.\n\nOnly print from GCode files if you know they mach your current printer and configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nGCode files tell your printer exactly what to do.  They are not modified by SliceSettings and may not be appropriate for your specific printer configuration.\n\nOnly print from GCode files if you know they mach your current printer and configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?

English:Do not show this message again
Translated:Do not show this message again

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nIt is recommendended that you only print Gcode files known to match your printer's configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nIt is recommendended that you only print Gcode files known to match your printer's configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?

English:Cannot find this file\nWould you like to remove it from the queue?
Translated:Cannot find this file\nWould you like to remove it from the queue?

English:Supported Angles
Translated:Supported Angles

English:Amount
Translated:Amount

English:Settings
Translated:Settings

English:Unsaved Changes
Translated:Unsaved Changes

English:No printer is currently selected. Please select a printer to edit slice settings.
Translated:No printer is currently selected. Please select a printer to edit slice settings.

English:NOTE: You need to select a printer, but do not need to connect to it.
Translated:NOTE: You need to select a printer, but do not need to connect to it.

English:Simple
Translated:Simple

English:Intermediate
Translated:Intermediate

English:The default temperature to set the bed to. Can sometimes be overridden on the first layer. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.
Translated:The default temperature to set the bed to. Can sometimes be overridden on the first layer. Set to 0 to eliminate bed temperature commands.

English:Turns on and off the creation of a raft which can help parts adhere to the bed.
Translated:Turns on and off the creation of a raft which can help parts adhere to the bed.

English:Options  
Translated:Options  

English:Expand Distance
Translated:Expand Distance

English:Insert
Translated:Insert

English:Restore
Translated:Restore

English:WINDOWED MODE: This tab has been moved to a separate window.
Translated:WINDOWED MODE: This tab has been moved to a separate window.

English:Sending File(s)...
Translated:Sending File(s)...

English:Slicing File(s)...
Translated:Slicing File(s)...

English:Edit Outline
Translated:Edit Outline

English:Use Alpha
Translated:Use Alpha

English:Start Threshold:
Translated:Start Threshold:

English:End Threshold:
Translated:End Threshold:

English:Edit Model
Translated:Edit Model

English:Invert
Translated:Invert

English:Size:
Translated:Size:

English:Height:
Translated:Height:

English:Edit Base
Translated:Edit Base

English:Infill:
Translated:Infill:

English:Unlock to Save
Translated:Unlock to Save

English:Save & Exit
Translated:Save & Exit

English:Finding Parts:
Translated:Finding Parts:

English:Add Image
Translated:Add Image

English:Search Google
Translated:Search Google

English:Word Edit
Translated:Word Edit

English:Spacing:
Translated:Spacing:

English:Underline
Translated:Underline

English:Rotation:
Translated:Rotation:

English:Enter Text Here
Translated:Enter Text Here

English:Inserting image...
Translated:Inserting image...

English:Completed Prints:
Translated:Completed Prints:

English:Total Print Time:
Translated:Total Print Time:

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Speed'
Translated:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Speed'

English:The '{0}' must be greater than 0.
Translated:The '{0}' must be greater than 0.

English:It is currently set to {0}.
Translated:It is currently set to {0}.

English:Slice Error
Translated:Slice Error

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Filament' -> 'Retraction'
Translated:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Filament' -> 'Retraction'

English:Save Slice Configuration
Translated:Save Slice Configuration

English:Printing: {0}
Translated:Printing: {0}

English:Finished Print: {0}
Translated:Finished Print: {0}

English:Smaller numbers create less support. Larger numbers create more support. Starting at 0, the angles from the bed that requires support.
Translated:Smaller numbers create less support. Larger numbers create more support. Starting at 0, the angles from the bed that requires support.

English:Preview
Translated:Preview

English:Send Test
Translated:Send Test

English:NOTE: Standard messaging rates may apply.
Translated:NOTE: Standard messaging rates may apply.

English:Include a picture of my finished print
Translated:Include a picture of my finished print

English:Send to Remote Device
Translated:Send to Remote Device

English:Slice Files Prior to Send
Translated:Slice Files Prior to Send

English:Please wait. Retrieving available devices...
Translated:Please wait. Retrieving available devices...

English:Token request failed...
Translated:Token request failed...

English:Oops! Your session has expired.  Please sign-in again to continue.
Translated:Oops! Your session has expired.  Please sign-in again to continue.

English:Sorry! Unable to connect to server. Please try again later.
Translated:Sorry! Unable to connect to server. Please try again later.

English:All done! Files have been sent.
Translated:All done! Files have been sent.

English:Retry
Translated:Retry

English:Please wait. Preparing to send...
Translated:Please wait. Preparing to send...

English:Token received...
Translated:Token received...

English:Please wait. Sending files...
Translated:Please wait. Sending files...

English:File too big to load.
Translated:File too big to load.

English:Specify if your printer has the ability to do print leveling directly (support for G29).
Translated:Specify if your printer has the ability to do print leveling directly (support for G29).

English:Has Hardware Leveling
Translated:Has Hardware Leveling

English:The Fill Density must be between 0 and 1 inclusive.
Translated:The Fill Density must be between 0 and 1 inclusive.

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Infill'
Translated:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Infill'

English:Inserting Text
Translated:Inserting Text

English:Saving Parts:
Translated:Saving Parts:

English:Reset Connection
Translated:Reset Connection

English:Reboots the firmware on the controller
Translated:Reboots the firmware on the controller

English:Please wait. Slicing files {0} of {1}
Translated:Please wait. Slicing files {0} of {1}

English:Normally while printing the printer will home before heating the extruder(s). Set this to cause the heating to happen before the homing. This can help with printers that touch the bed while homing.
Translated:Normally while printing the printer will home before heating the extruder(s). Set this to cause the heating to happen before the homing. This can help with printers that touch the bed while homing.

English:Heat Before Homing
Translated:Heat Before Homing

English:Clear Print History
Translated:Clear Print History

English:This gcode will be inserted into the output right after the temperature setting. If you have the commands to set temperature in this section they will not be generated outside of this section. You can also include values from other settings such as [temperature].
Translated:This gcode will be inserted into the output right after the temperature setting. If you have the commands to set temperature in this section they will not be generated outside of this section. You can also include values from other settings such as [temperature].

English:GCode file too big to load for '{0}'.
Translated:GCode file too big to load for '{0}'.

English:Reset\nConnection
Translated:Reset\nConnection

English:Show Reset Connection
Translated:Show Reset Connection

English:Makes visible a button that will reset the connection when pressed. This can be used on printers that support it as an emergency stop.
Translated:Makes visible a button that will reset the connection when pressed. This can be used on printers that support it as an emergency stop.

English:You may need to wait a minute for your printer to finish initializing.
Translated:You may need to wait a minute for your printer to finish initializing.

English: Export to Folder or SD Card
Translated: Export to Folder or SD Card

English:Converting image...
Translated:Converting image...

English:Add To Library
Translated:Add To Library

English:Print Queue
Translated:Print Queue

English:Interface Mode
Translated:Interface Mode

English:Standard
Translated:Standard

English:Connect to the printer
Translated:Connect to the printer

English:Reset
Translated:Reset

English:Console
Translated:Console

English:On
Translated:On

English:Off
Translated:Off

English:How many layers, or the distance, that will be solid filled on the bottom surfaces of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:How many layers, or the distance, that will be solid filled on the bottom surfaces of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.

English:The number of layers, or the distance, to print between the supports and the part. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:The number of layers, or the distance, to print between the supports and the part. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.

English:The number of layers, or the distance, to skip between the support and the model. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:The number of layers, or the distance, to skip between the support and the model. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.

English:How many layers, or the distance, that will be solid filled on the top surfaces of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:How many layers, or the distance, that will be solid filled on the top surfaces of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.

English:Top Solid Layers:
Translated:Top Solid Layers:

English:Bottom Solid Layers:
Translated:Bottom Solid Layers:

English:This will cause the extruder to try to wipe itself after retracting to minimize strings.
Translated:This will cause the extruder to try to wipe itself after retracting to minimize strings.

English:Calculating Positions...
Translated:Calculating Positions...
English:ATX Power Control
Translated:ATX Power Control

English:Specify if your printer can control the power supply
Translated:Specify if your printer can control the power supply

English:Has Power Control
Translated:Has Power Control

English:The temperature the bed temperature will be set to when part is to be removed.
Translated:The temperature the bed temperature will be set to when part is to be removed.

English:Extruder Wipe Temperature
Translated:Extruder Wipe Temperature

English:Bed Remove Part Temperature
Translated:Bed Remove Part Temperature

English:The temperature the extruder will be when extruder wipes.
Translated:The temperature the extruder will be when extruder wipes.

English:The temperature the extruder will be when extruder wipes.
Translated:The temperature the extruder will be when extruder wipes.

English:Basic
Translated:Basic

English:Sets the size of the outer solid surface for the entire print.
Translated:Sets the size of the outer solid surface for the entire print.

English:The number, or total width, of external shells to create. Add mm to the end of the number to specify width.
Translated:The number, or total width, of external shells to create. Add mm to the end of the number to specify width.

English:Layers/Surface
Translated:Layers/Surface

English:Width
Translated:Width

English:Arrange
Translated:Arrange

English:The speed to move while printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage it will modify the corresponding speed set above.
Translated:The speed to move while printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage it will modify the corresponding speed set above.

English:This gcode will sent to the printer immediately after connecting. It can be used to set settings specific to a given printer.
Translated:This gcode will sent to the printer immediately after connecting. It can be used to set settings specific to a given printer.

English:Features
Translated:Features

English:Update Available
Translated:Update Available

English:Check For Update
Translated:Check For Update

English:solid_shell
Translated:solid_shell

English:GCode file too big to preview ({0}).
Translated:GCode file too big to preview ({0}).

English:Up to Date
Translated:Up to Date

English:Checking For Update
Translated:Checking For Update

English:Loading Parts...
Translated:Loading Parts...

English:More
Translated:More

English:Share
Translated:Share

English:WARNING: Write Failed!
Translated:WARNING: Write Failed!

English:Can't access '{0}'.
Translated:Can't access '{0}'.

English:Oops! Unable to save changes.
Translated:Oops! Unable to save changes.

English:Unable to save
Translated:Unable to save

English:Terminal
Translated:Terminal

English:Settings\n& Controls
Translated:Settings\n& Controls

English:Print Area
Translated:Print Area

English:First Layer Extrusion Width = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}
Translated:First Layer Extrusion Width = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}

English:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Advanced' -> 'Frist Layer'
Translated:Location: 'Advanced Controls' -> 'Slice Settings' -> 'Print' -> 'Advanced' -> 'Frist Layer'

English:First Layer Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.
Translated:First Layer Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.

English:First Layer Extrusion Width = {0}
Translated:First Layer Extrusion Width = {0}

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Speed'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Speed'

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Filament' -> 'Retraction'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Filament' -> 'Retraction'

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'Frist Layer'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'Frist Layer'

English:Open
Translated:Open

English:Checking For Update...
Translated:Checking For Update...

English:Create Folder
Translated:Create Folder

English:Redeem
Translated:Redeem

English:First Layer Height = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}
Translated:First Layer Height = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Layers/Surface'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Layers/Surface'

English:Create New Folder:
Translated:Create New Folder:

English:Folder Name
Translated:Folder Name

English:Enter a Folder Name Here
Translated:Enter a Folder Name Here

English:Save New Design to Queue
Translated:Save New Design to Queue

English:Design Name
Translated:Design Name

English:Enter the name of your design.
Translated:Enter the name of your design.

English:Enter a Design Name Here
Translated:Enter a Design Name Here

English:Also save to Library
Translated:Also save to Library

English:Home
Translated:Home

English:The collection you are trying to delete '{0}' is not empty. Would you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:The collection you are trying to delete '{0}' is not empty. Would you like to delete it anyway?

English:Collection not Empty
Translated:Collection not Empty

English:Do NOT Delete
Translated:Do NOT Delete

English:Library (cloud)
Translated:Library (cloud)

English:Purchased
Translated:Purchased

English:Session Expired
Translated:Session Expired

English:Thumbnail Rendering
Translated:Thumbnail Rendering

English:Flat
Translated:Flat

English:3D
Translated:3D

English:Update Status
Translated:Update Status

English:The folder you are trying to delete '{0}' is not empty. Would you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:The folder you are trying to delete '{0}' is not empty. Would you like to delete it anyway?

English:Folder not Empty
Translated:Folder not Empty

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\nWould you like to delete it anyway?

English:Delete folder?
Translated:Delete folder?

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?

English:Delete folder?
Translated:Delete folder?

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?

English:Delete folder?
Translated:Delete folder?

English:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?
Translated:The folder '{0}' is not empty.\n\nWould you like to delete it anyway?

English:Delete folder?
Translated:Delete folder?

English:Cloud Library
Translated:Cloud Library

English:Rename
Translated:Rename

English:Rename Item:
Translated:Rename Item:

English:New Name
Translated:New Name

English:Enter New Name Here
Translated:Enter New Name Here

English:The speed to print the visible outside edges. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Inside Perimeters speed.
Translated:The speed to print the visible outside edges. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Inside Perimeters speed.

English:Save New Design
Translated:Save New Design

English:Save Location
Translated:Save Location

English:Choose the location to save to.
Translated:Choose the location to save to.

English:Sample the bed at seven points
Translated:Sample the bed at seven points

English:You should be done in about 5 minutes.
Translated:You should be done in about 5 minutes.

English:The print leveling alogrithm to use.
Translated:The print leveling alogrithm to use.

English:The print leveling sampling mothod to use.
Translated:The print leveling sampling mothod to use.

English:This gcode will be run prior to starting bed probing.
Translated:This gcode will be run prior to starting bed probing.

English:This gcode will be run after finishing bed probing.
Translated:This gcode will be run after finishing bed probing.

English:The width of the paper (or other calibration device) used when doing manual bed probing.
Translated:The width of the paper (or other calibration device) used when doing manual bed probing.

English:The offset of the probe relative to the extruder.
Translated:The offset of the probe relative to the extruder.

English:The z offset of the probe relative to the extruder.
Translated:The z offset of the probe relative to the extruder.

English:Print Leveling
Translated:Print Leveling

English:Leveling Solution
Translated:Leveling Solution

English:Leveling Method
Translated:Leveling Method

English:Manual Probe Paper Width
Translated:Manual Probe Paper Width

English:Probe Offset
Translated:Probe Offset

English:Probe Z Offset
Translated:Probe Z Offset

English:There is a recommended update available for MatterControl. Would you like to download it now?
Translated:There is a recommended update available for MatterControl. Would you like to download it now?

English:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nIt is recommended that you only print Gcode files known to match your printer's configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?
Translated:The file you are attempting to print is a GCode file.\n\nIt is recommended that you only print Gcode files known to match your printer's configuration.\n\nAre you sure you want to print this GCode file?

English:This printer requires print leveling to run correctly.
Translated:This printer requires print leveling to run correctly.

English:Require Leveling To Print
Translated:Require Leveling To Print

English:Oops! You cannot restart while a print is active.
Translated:Oops! You cannot restart while a print is active.

English:Unable to restart
Translated:Unable to restart

English:Add File To Queue
Translated:Add File To Queue

English:Add Folder To Library
Translated:Add Folder To Library

English:Using the above controls
Translated:Using the above controls

English:Add Local Folder To Library
Translated:Add Local Folder To Library

English:Redeem Design Code
Translated:Redeem Design Code

English:You should be done in about 6 minutes.
Translated:You should be done in about 6 minutes.

English:Enter Share Code
Translated:Enter Share Code

English:Downloading...
Translated:Downloading...

English:Uploading...
Translated:Uploading...

English:Click to show in 3D View
Translated:Click to show in 3D View

English:Enter Mulit Select mode
Translated:Enter Mulit Select mode

English:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File To The Queue
Translated:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File To The Queue

English:Choose a Create Tool to generate custom parts
Translated:Choose a Create Tool to generate custom parts

English:Switch to Setings and Manual Controls pannel
Translated:Switch to Setings and Manual Controls pannel

English:Pop This Tab out into its own Window
Translated:Pop This Tab out into its own Window

English:Preview layer Tool Paths
Translated:Preview layer Tool Paths

English:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File to the Queue
Translated:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File to the Queue

English:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File to the Bed
Translated:Add a .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip File to the Bed

English:Add an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file to the Queue
Translated:Add an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file to the Queue

English:Insert an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file
Translated:Insert an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file

English:Bring the Window back into this Tab
Translated:Bring the Window back into this Tab

English:Insert an .stl, .amf or .zip file
Translated:Insert an .stl, .amf or .zip file

English:Update Channel
Translated:Update Channel

English:Current Build : Test Build
Translated:Current Build : Test Build

English:Stable: The current release version of MatterControl (recommended).
Translated:Stable: The current release version of MatterControl (recommended).

English:Beta: The release candidate version of MatterControl.
Translated:Beta: The release candidate version of MatterControl.

English:Alpha: The in development version of MatterControl.
Translated:Alpha: The in development version of MatterControl.

English:Choose a Create Tool to generate custom designs
Translated:Choose a Create Tool to generate custom designs

English:Switch to Settings, Controls and Options
Translated:Switch to Settings, Controls and Options

English:Switch to Queue, Library and History
Translated:Switch to Queue, Library and History

English:Sign in to your MatterControl account
Translated:Sign in to your MatterControl account

English:Connect to the currently selected printer
Translated:Connect to the currently selected printer

English:Disconnect from current printer
Translated:Disconnect from current printer

English:Select a printer
Translated:Select a printer

English:Current extruder temperature
Translated:Current extruder temperature

English:Preheat the Extruder
Translated:Preheat the Extruder

English:Current bed temperature
Translated:Current bed temperature

English:Preheat the Bed
Translated:Preheat the Bed

English:Shop online for printing materials
Translated:Shop online for printing materials

English:Add an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file to the Library
Translated:Add an .stl, .amf, .gcode or .zip file to the Library

English:Open your dashboard in a web browser
Translated:Open your dashboard in a web browser

English:Sign out of your MatterControl account
Translated:Sign out of your MatterControl account

English:Add a new Printer Profile
Translated:Add a new Printer Profile

English:Rotate (Ctrl + L. Mouse)
Translated:Rotate (Ctrl + L. Mouse)

English:Move (Shift + L. Mouse)
Translated:Move (Shift + L. Mouse)

English:Zoom (Alt + L. Mouse)
Translated:Zoom (Alt + L. Mouse)

English:Select Part
Translated:Select Part

English:Move
Translated:Move

English:Zoom
Translated:Zoom

English:Preview 3D Design
Translated:Preview 3D Design

English:Rotate (Alt + L. Mouse)
Translated:Rotate (Alt + L. Mouse)

English:Zoom (Ctrl + L. Mouse)
Translated:Zoom (Ctrl + L. Mouse)

English:Enter Multi Select mode
Translated:Enter Multi Select mode

English:Print leveling is enabled.
Translated:Print leveling is enabled.

English:Edit notification settings
Translated:Edit notification settings

English:Rotate (Alt + Left Mouse)
Translated:Rotate (Alt + Left Mouse)

English:Move (Shift + Left Mouse)
Translated:Move (Shift + Left Mouse)

English:Zoom (Ctrl + Left Mouse)
Translated:Zoom (Ctrl + Left Mouse)

English:Search Results
Translated:Search Results

English:Slice files prior to send
Translated:Slice files prior to send

English:Oops! Please sign in to continue.
Translated:Oops! Please sign in to continue.

English:Login Required
Translated:Login Required

English:Rebuild Thumbnails Now
Translated:Rebuild Thumbnails Now

English:You are switching to a different thumbnail rendering mode. If you want, your current thumbnails can be removed and recreated in the new style. You can switch back and forth at any time. There will be some processing overhead while the new thumbnails are created.\n\nDo you want to rebuild your existing thumbnails now?
Translated:You are switching to a different thumbnail rendering mode. If you want, your current thumbnails can be removed and recreated in the new style. You can switch back and forth at any time. There will be some processing overhead while the new thumbnails are created.\n\nDo you want to rebuild your existing thumbnails now?

English:Loading...
Translated:Loading...

English:Wrapping:
Translated:Wrapping:

English:Use Braille
Translated:Use Braille

English:Only Braille
Translated:Only Braille

English:Retrieving Contents...
Translated:Retrieving Contents...

English:Cloud Sync
Translated:Cloud Sync

English:Include Text
Translated:Include Text

English:Show normal text under the braille
Translated:Show normal text under the braille

English:Use Grade 2
Translated:Use Grade 2

English:Experimental support for Braille grade 2 (contractions)
Translated:Experimental support for Braille grade 2 (contractions)

English:About Braille
Translated:About Braille

English:Add a new Material Preset
Translated:Add a new Material Preset

English:Import an existing Material Preset
Translated:Import an existing Material Preset

English:Share Library Item
Translated:Share Library Item

English:Share Options
Translated:Share Options

English:Your Share Code:
Translated:Your Share Code:

English:Anyone with this code will have access
Translated:Anyone with this code will have access

English:Share with someone
Translated:Share with someone

English:read-only
Translated:read-only

English:Generate Share Code
Translated:Generate Share Code

English:Please wait. Retrieving share code...
Translated:Please wait. Retrieving share code...

English:Provide this code to grant someone read-only access.
Translated:Provide this code to grant someone read-only access.

English:Please wait. Sending invite...
Translated:Please wait. Sending invite...

English:Invite sent!
Translated:Invite sent!

English:Your invite has been sent!
Translated:Your invite has been sent!

English:Enter Share Code:
Translated:Enter Share Code:

English:This code to will provide read-only access.
Translated:This code to will provide read-only access.

English:Please wait. Redeeming code...
Translated:Please wait. Redeeming code...

English:Oops! Invalid code.
Translated:Oops! Invalid code.

English:Your code has been redeemed.  Please check the Library.
Translated:Your code has been redeemed.  Please check the Library.

English:Shared with Me
Translated:Shared with Me

English:Share designs from your Cloud Library
Translated:Share designs from your Cloud Library

English:Exporting to Folder or SD Card
Translated:Exporting to Folder or SD Card

English:Materials
Translated:Materials

English:Material {0}
Translated:Material {0}

English:Redeem Purchase
Translated:Redeem Purchase

English:Oops! Please sign in to enable this feature.
Translated:Oops! Please sign in to enable this feature.

English:Rebuild
Translated:Rebuild

English:Outside Perimeters
Translated:Outside Perimeters

English:Sample the bed at {0} points
Translated:Sample the bed at {0} points

English:Software Print Leveling (disabled)
Translated:Software Print Leveling (disabled)

English:Calibration Settings
Translated:Calibration Settings

English:Software Print Leveling (enabled)
Translated:Software Print Leveling (enabled)

English:Layer Height = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}
Translated:Layer Height = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}

English:Solid Infill works best when set tu LINES.
Translated:Solid Infill works best when set tu LINES.

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Infill Type'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Infill Type'

English:Show normal text above the braille
Translated:Show normal text above the braille

English:The image file you have attempted to load is invalid or has no data. Please check the file or try another image.
Translated:The image file you have attempted to load is invalid or has no data. Please check the file or try another image.

English:Could Not Load Image File
Translated:Could Not Load Image File

English:Reset View
Translated:Reset View

English:If you want to select a layer to pause your print on do so here (for changing filament)
Translated:If you want to select a layer to pause your print on do so here (for changing filament)

English:Select Layer To Pause:
Translated:Select Layer To Pause:

English:Offset:
Translated:Offset:

English:The speed to move while printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage the above Infill speed is modified.
Translated:The speed to move while printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage the above Infill speed is modified.

English:The distance between the interface of support and the part. A good value is typically about 1/2 your extrusion diameter. So, between 0.0 and .2 for a .4 nozzle.
Translated:The distance between the interface of support and the part. A good value is typically about 1/2 your extrusion diameter. So, between 0.0 and .2 for a .4 nozzle.

English:Distance From Object
Translated:Distance From Object

English:Maximum Fan Speed
Translated:Maximum Fan Speed

English:The amount that the filament will be reversed before each qualifying non-printing move.
Translated:The amount that the filament will be reversed before each qualifying non-printing move.

English:Wipe After Retract
Translated:Wipe After Retract

English:Print Bed
Translated:Print Bed

English:Transparent
Translated:Transparent

English:Canceled
Translated:Canceled

English:Your printer is reporting a hardware Error. This may prevent your printer from functioning properly.
Translated:Your printer is reporting a hardware Error. This may prevent your printer from functioning properly.

English:Error Reported
Translated:Error Reported

English:Printer Hardware Error
Translated:Printer Hardware Error

English:Error Loading Contents
Translated:Error Loading Contents

English:Temporarily override target temperature
Translated:Temporarily override target temperature

English:CHANGE
Translated:CHANGE

English:REVERT
Translated:REVERT

English:UPDATE
Translated:UPDATE

English:Oops! Could not complete update.
Translated:Oops! Could not complete update.

English:Connect your printer to check for firmware updates.
Translated:Connect your printer to check for firmware updates.

English:Fine
Translated:Fine

English:Coarse
Translated:Coarse

English:Outer Surface - Perimeters
Translated:Outer Surface - Perimeters

English:Outer Surface - Top & Bottom
Translated:Outer Surface - Top & Bottom

English:Light
Translated:Light

English:Heavy
Translated:Heavy

English:Speed for Infill
Translated:Speed for Infill

English:Speed for Perimeters
Translated:Speed for Perimeters

English:Speeds for Other Printing
Translated:Speeds for Other Printing

English:Speed for Non-Print Moves
Translated:Speed for Non-Print Moves

English:Touching
Translated:Touching

English:Far
Translated:Far

English:Machine Settings
Translated:Machine Settings

English:Probe Settings
Translated:Probe Settings

English:On Connect G-Code
Translated:On Connect G-Code

English:sign in
Translated:sign in

English:Log into my account
Translated:Log into my account

English:Login
Translated:Login

English:Username or Email
Translated:Username or Email

English:Enter your username or email address
Translated:Enter your username or email address

English:Password
Translated:Password

English:Forgot Password
Translated:Forgot Password

English:Enter your password
Translated:Enter your password

English:New User? 
Translated:New User? 

English:Create An Account
Translated:Create An Account

English:Please wait. Signing in...
Translated:Please wait. Signing in...

English:Extruder Temperatures
Translated:Extruder Temperatures

English:Bed Temperatures
Translated:Bed Temperatures

English:Waiting for device to connect...
Translated:Waiting for device to connect...

English:Detecting device firmware...
Translated:Detecting device firmware...

English:Detecting target firmware...
Translated:Detecting target firmware...

English:The amount of support to generate.
Translated:The amount of support to generate.

English:Support Percent
Translated:Support Percent

English:Allow Negative Z
Translated:Allow Negative Z

English:Offset: 
Translated:Offset: 

English:Are you sure you want to abort the current print and close MatterControl?
Translated:Are you sure you want to abort the current print and close MatterControl?

English:Abort Print
Translated:Abort Print

English:mm / minute
Translated:mm / minute

English:Attempts to avoid having the perimeter line cross over existing perimeter lines. This can help with oozing or strings.
Translated:Attempts to avoid having the perimeter line cross over existing perimeter lines. This can help with oozing or strings.

English:The X and Y values of the size of the print bed, in millimeters. For printers with a circular bed, these values are the diameters on the X and Y axes.
Translated:The X and Y values of the size of the print bed, in millimeters. For printers with a circular bed, these values are the diameters on the X and Y axes.

English:The temperature to which the bed will be set for the duration of the print. Set to 0 to disable.
Translated:The temperature to which the bed will be set for the duration of the print. Set to 0 to disable.

English:The amount to remove from the bottom of the model, in millimeters.
Translated:The amount to remove from the bottom of the model, in millimeters.

English:The number of layers or the distance in millimeters to solid fill on the bottom surface(s) of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance in millimeters.
Translated:The number of layers or the distance in millimeters to solid fill on the bottom surface(s) of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance in millimeters.

English:The speed at which the layer cooling fan will run when bridging, expressed as a percentage of full power.
Translated:The speed at which the layer cooling fan will run when bridging, expressed as a percentage of full power.

English:The speed at which bridging between walls will print.
Translated:The speed at which bridging between walls will print.

English:The amount of brim that will be drawn around each object, in millimeters. This can be useful to ensure that parts stay affixed to the bed.
Translated:The amount of brim that will be drawn around each object, in millimeters. This can be useful to ensure that parts stay affixed to the bed.

English:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Primarily controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.
Translated:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Primarily controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.

English:G-Code to run when a print is canceled.
Translated:G-Code to run when a print is canceled.

English:Centers the print on the bed, regardless of where it is moved in Edit Mode. Disable to allow printing a model anywhere on the bed.
Translated:Centers the print on the bed, regardless of where it is moved in Edit Mode. Disable to allow printing a model anywhere on the bed.

English:G-Code to run upon successful connection to a printer. This can be useful to set settings specific to a given printer.
Translated:G-Code to run upon successful connection to a printer. This can be useful to set settings specific to a given printer.

English:Creates a raft under the printed part. Useful to prevent warping when printing ABS (and other warping-prone plastics) as it helps parts adhere to the bed.
Translated:Creates a raft under the printed part. Useful to prevent warping when printing ABS (and other warping-prone plastics) as it helps parts adhere to the bed.

English:The extra distance the raft will extend around the edge of the part.
Translated:The extra distance the raft will extend around the edge of the part.

English:The distance between the first layer and the top of the raft. A good value is typically about half the extrusion diameter. For a 0.4 mm nozzle, a value between 0.0 and 0.2 would be best.
Translated:The distance between the first layer and the top of the raft. A good value is typically about half the extrusion diameter. For a 0.4 mm nozzle, a value between 0.0 and 0.2 would be best.

English:The speed at which the cooling fan(s) will run during the printing of the raft, expressed as a percentage of full power.
Translated:The speed at which the cooling fan(s) will run during the printing of the raft, expressed as a percentage of full power.

English:The speed at which the layers of the raft (other than the first layer) will print. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:The speed at which the layers of the raft (other than the first layer) will print. This can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.

English:The number of layers for which the layer cooling fan will be forced off at the start of the print.
Translated:The number of layers for which the layer cooling fan will be forced off at the start of the print.

English:G-Code to be run at the end of all automatic output (the very end of the G-Code commands).
Translated:G-Code to be run at the end of all automatic output (the very end of the G-Code commands).

English:The speed at which outside, (visible) perimeters will print.
Translated:The speed at which outside, (visible) perimeters will print.

English:Forces external perimeters to be printed first. By default, they will print last.
Translated:Forces external perimeters to be printed first. By default, they will print last.

English:The number of extruders the printer has.
Translated:The number of extruders the printer has.

English:Indicate that the extruders share a common heater cartridge.
Translated:Indicate that the extruders share a common heater cartridge.

English:Forces the printer to heat the nozzle before homing.
Translated:Forces the printer to heat the nozzle before homing.

English:This is the identifier used in the G-Code to specify the extruder.
Translated:This is the identifier used in the G-Code to specify the extruder.

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1  will increase the amount of filament being extruded (1.1 is a good max value); decreasing it will decrease the amount being extruded (.9 is a good minimum value).
Translated:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1  will increase the amount of filament being extruded (1.1 is a good max value); decreasing it will decrease the amount being extruded (.9 is a good minimum value).

English:The actual diameter of the filament used for printing.
Translated:The actual diameter of the filament used for printing.

English:The angle of the infill, measured from the X axis. Not used when bridging.
Translated:The angle of the infill, measured from the X axis. Not used when bridging.

English:The amount of infill material to generate, expressed as a ratio or a percentage.
Translated:The amount of infill material to generate, expressed as a ratio or a percentage.

English:The geometric shape of the support structure for the inside of parts.
Translated:The geometric shape of the support structure for the inside of parts.

English:Acceleration to use while printing the first layer. Set to 0 to use the default first layer acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use while printing the first layer. Set to 0 to use the default first layer acceleration.

English:The height of the first layer. A first layer taller than the default layer height can sometimes be used to improve adhesion to the build plate.
Translated:The height of the first layer. A first layer taller than the default layer height can sometimes be used to improve adhesion to the build plate.

English:The speed at which the nozzle will move when printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage the Infill speed is modified.
Translated:The speed at which the nozzle will move when printing the first layer. If expressed as a percentage the Infill speed is modified.

English:Include detailed comments in the G-Code.
Translated:Include detailed comments in the G-Code.

English:The version of G-Code the printer's firmware communicates with. Some firmware use different G and M codes. Setting this ensures that the output G-Code will use the correct commands.
Translated:The version of G-Code the printer's firmware communicates with. Some firmware use different G and M codes. Setting this ensures that the output G-Code will use the correct commands.

English:The printer has a layer-cooling fan.
Translated:The printer has a layer-cooling fan.

English:The printer has its own auto bed leveling probe and procedure which can be called using a G29 command during Start G-Code.
Translated:The printer has its own auto bed leveling probe and procedure which can be called using a G29 command during Start G-Code.

English:The printer has a heated bed.
Translated:The printer has a heated bed.

English:The printer has the ability to control the power supply. Enable this function to show the ATX Power Control section on the Control pane.
Translated:The printer has the ability to control the power supply. Enable this function to show the ATX Power Control section on the Control pane.

English:The printer has a SD card reader.
Translated:The printer has a SD card reader.

English:Shows a button at the right side of the Printer Connection Bar used to reset the USB connection to the printer. This can be used on printers that support it as an emergency stop.
Translated:Shows a button at the right side of the Printer Connection Bar used to reset the USB connection to the printer. This can be used on printers that support it as an emergency stop.

English:Acceleration to use when printing infill. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.
Translated:Acceleration to use when printing infill. Set to 0 to disable changing the printer's acceleration.

English:The speed at which infill will print.
Translated:The speed at which infill will print.

English:The print leveling algorithm to use.
Translated:The print leveling algorithm to use.

English:The printer requires print leveling to run correctly.
Translated:The printer requires print leveling to run correctly.

English:The print leveling sampling method to use.
Translated:The print leveling sampling method to use.

English:The thickness of the paper (or other calibration device) used to perform manual bed probe.
Translated:The thickness of the paper (or other calibration device) used to perform manual bed probe.

English:G-Code to be run after the change in Z height for the next layer.
Translated:G-Code to be run after the change in Z height for the next layer.

English:The height of each layer of the print, except the first. A smaller number will create more layers and more vertical accuracy but also a slower print.
Translated:The height of each layer of the print, except the first. A smaller number will create more layers and more vertical accuracy but also a slower print.

English:Sets the size of the outer solid surface (perimeter) for the entire print.
Translated:Sets the size of the outer solid surface (perimeter) for the entire print.

English:The maximum speed at which the layer cooling fan will run, expressed as a percentage of full power.
Translated:The maximum speed at which the layer cooling fan will run, expressed as a percentage of full power.

English:The minimum length of filament that must be extruded before a retraction can occur.
Translated:The minimum length of filament that must be extruded before a retraction can occur.

English:The minimum speed at which the layer cooling fan will run, expressed as a percentage of full power.
Translated:The minimum speed at which the layer cooling fan will run, expressed as a percentage of full power.

English:The minimum speed to which the printer will reduce to in order to attempt to make the layer print time long enough to satisfy the minimum layer time.
Translated:The minimum speed to which the printer will reduce to in order to attempt to make the layer print time long enough to satisfy the minimum layer time.

English:The minimum length of filament to use printing the skirt loops. Enough skirt loops will be drawn to use this amount of filament, overriding the value set in Loops if the value in Loops will produce a skirt shorter than this value.
Translated:The minimum length of filament to use printing the skirt loops. Enough skirt loops will be drawn to use this amount of filament, overriding the value set in Loops if the value in Loops will produce a skirt shorter than this value.

English:These notes will be added as comments in the header of the output G-Code.
Translated:These notes will be added as comments in the header of the output G-Code.

English:The diameter of the extruder's nozzle.
Translated:The diameter of the extruder's nozzle.

English:G-Code to run when the printer is paused.
Translated:G-Code to run when the printer is paused.

English:A modifier of the width of the extrusion when printing outside perimeters. Can be useful to fine-adjust actual print size when objects print larger or smaller than specified in the digital model.
Translated:A modifier of the width of the extrusion when printing outside perimeters. Can be useful to fine-adjust actual print size when objects print larger or smaller than specified in the digital model.

English:The speed at which inside perimeters will print.
Translated:The speed at which inside perimeters will print.

English:The number, or total width, of external shells to create. Add mm to the end of the number to specify width in millimeters.
Translated:The number, or total width, of external shells to create. Add mm to the end of the number to specify width in millimeters.

English:You can include additional programs to process the G-Code after slicer is finished. The complete path of the program to run should be included here.
Translated:You can include additional programs to process the G-Code after slicer is finished. The complete path of the program to run should be included here.

English:The position (X and Y coordinates) of the center of the print bed, in millimeters.
Translated:The position (X and Y coordinates) of the center of the print bed, in millimeters.

English:G-Code to be run when the print resumes after a pause.
Translated:G-Code to be run when the print resumes after a pause.

English:The minimum distance of a non-print move which will trigger a retraction.
Translated:The minimum distance of a non-print move which will trigger a retraction.

English:The distance filament will reverse before each qualifying non-print move
Translated:The distance filament will reverse before each qualifying non-print move

English:When using multiple extruders, the distance filament will reverse before changing to a different extruder.
Translated:When using multiple extruders, the distance filament will reverse before changing to a different extruder.

English:Force a retraction when moving between islands (distinct parts on the layer).
Translated:Force a retraction when moving between islands (distinct parts on the layer).

English:The distance the nozzle will lift after each retraction.
Translated:The distance the nozzle will lift after each retraction.

English:Length of filament to extrude after a complete retraction (in addition to the re-extrusion of the Length on Move distance).
Translated:Length of filament to extrude after a complete retraction (in addition to the re-extrusion of the Length on Move distance).

English:The speed at which filament will retract and re-extrude.
Translated:The speed at which filament will retract and re-extrude.

English:The number of loops to draw around all the parts on the bed before starting on the parts. Used mostly to prime the nozzle so the flow is even when the actual print begins.
Translated:The number of loops to draw around all the parts on the bed before starting on the parts. Used mostly to prime the nozzle so the flow is even when the actual print begins.

English:The minimum amount of time a layer must take to print. If a layer will take less than this amount of time, the movement speed is reduced so the layer print time will match this value, down to the minimum print speed at the slowest.
Translated:The minimum amount of time a layer must take to print. If a layer will take less than this amount of time, the movement speed is reduced so the layer print time will match this value, down to the minimum print speed at the slowest.

English:Forces the print to have only one extrusion and gradually increase the extruder height during the print. Only one part will print at a time with this feature.
Translated:Forces the print to have only one extrusion and gradually increase the extruder height during the print. Only one part will print at a time with this feature.

English:G-Code to be run immediately following the temperature setting commands. Including commands to set temperature in this section will cause them not be generated outside of this section. Will accept Custom G-Code variables.
Translated:G-Code to be run immediately following the temperature setting commands. Including commands to set temperature in this section will cause them not be generated outside of this section. Will accept Custom G-Code variables.

English:The distance between the first layer (the bottom) and the top of the raft. A good value depends on the type of material. For PLA and ABS a value between 0.1 and 0.3 generaly works well.
Translated:The distance between the first layer (the bottom) and the top of the raft. A good value depends on the type of material. For PLA and ABS a value between 0.1 and 0.3 generaly works well.

English:The percent of the extrusion width that can be overlapped and still generate.
Translated:The percent of the extrusion width that can be overlapped and still generate.

English:The angle at which the support material lines will be drawn.
Translated:The angle at which the support material lines will be drawn.

English:Generates support material starting on top of internal surfaces. If unchecked support will only generate starting on the bed.
Translated:Generates support material starting on top of internal surfaces. If unchecked support will only generate starting on the bed.

English:The index of the extruder to use for printing support material. Applicable only when Extruder Count is set to a value more than 1.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for printing support material. Applicable only when Extruder Count is set to a value more than 1.

English:The index of the extruder to use to print the raft. Set to 0 to use the support extruder index.
Translated:The index of the extruder to use to print the raft. Set to 0 to use the support extruder index.

English:A modifier of the width of the extrusion when printing support material. Set to 0 for automatic calculation.
Translated:A modifier of the width of the extrusion when printing support material. Set to 0 for automatic calculation.

English:The index of the extruder to use for support material interface layer(s).
Translated:The index of the extruder to use for support material interface layer(s).

English:The number of layers or the distance to print solid material between the supports and the part. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:The number of layers or the distance to print solid material between the supports and the part. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.

English:The pattern to draw for the generation of support material.
Translated:The pattern to draw for the generation of support material.

English:The distance between support material lines.
Translated:The distance between support material lines.

English:The speed at which support material structures will print.
Translated:The speed at which support material structures will print.

English:The minimum angle of overhang for which support material will be created. The angle perpendicular to the bed = 0; parallel with the bed = 90.
Translated:The minimum angle of overhang for which support material will be created. The angle perpendicular to the bed = 0; parallel with the bed = 90.

English:The distance the support material will be from the object in the X and Y directions.
Translated:The distance the support material will be from the object in the X and Y directions.

English:The number of layers, or the distance, to skip between the support (including interface layers) and the model. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.
Translated:The number of layers, or the distance, to skip between the support (including interface layers) and the model. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance.

English:Generates support material under areas of the part which may be too steep to support themselves.
Translated:Generates support material under areas of the part which may be too steep to support themselves.

English:The target temperature the extruder will attempt to reach during the print.
Translated:The target temperature the extruder will attempt to reach during the print.

English:The temperature at which the extruder will wipe the nozzle, as specified by Custom G-Code.
Translated:The temperature at which the extruder will wipe the nozzle, as specified by Custom G-Code.

English:The temperature to which the bed will heat (or cool) in order to remove the part, as specified in Custom G-Code.
Translated:The temperature to which the bed will heat (or cool) in order to remove the part, as specified in Custom G-Code.

English:G-Code to be run after every tool change.
Translated:G-Code to be run after every tool change.

English:The number of layers, or the distance in millimeters, to solid fill on the top surface(s) of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance in millimeters.
Translated:The number of layers, or the distance in millimeters, to solid fill on the top surface(s) of the object. Add mm to the end of the number to specify distance in millimeters.

English:The speed at which the nozzle will move when not extruding material.
Translated:The speed at which the nozzle will move when not extruding material.

English:The extruder will wipe the nozzle over the last up to 10 mm of tool path after retracting.
Translated:The extruder will wipe the nozzle over the last up to 10 mm of tool path after retracting.

English:Creates a perimeter around the part on which to wipe the other nozzle when printing using dual extrusion. Set to 0 to disable.
Translated:Creates a perimeter around the part on which to wipe the other nozzle when printing using dual extrusion. Set to 0 to disable.

English:The length and width of a tower created at the back left of the print used for wiping the next nozzle when changing between multiple extruders. Set to 0 to disable.
Translated:The length and width of a tower created at the back left of the print used for wiping the next nozzle when changing between multiple extruders. Set to 0 to disable.

English:Allows the printer to attempt going below 0 along the Z axis during the Software Print Leveling wizard, and disables related warnings. Does not override actual endstops, physical or software.
Translated:Allows the printer to attempt going below 0 along the Z axis during the Software Print Leveling wizard, and disables related warnings. Does not override actual endstops, physical or software.

English:The distance to move the nozzle along the Z axis to ensure that it is the correct distance from the print bed. A positive number will raise the nozzle, and a negative number will lower it.
Translated:The distance to move the nozzle along the Z axis to ensure that it is the correct distance from the print bed. A positive number will raise the nozzle, and a negative number will lower it.

English:Retract When \nChanging Islands
Translated:Retract When \nChanging Islands

English:Movement
Translated:Movement

English:Fan
Translated:Fan

English:Firmware Version: {0}
Translated:Firmware Version: {0}

English:Offset
Translated:Offset

English:Downloads
Translated:Downloads

English:Local Library
Translated:Local Library

English:G-Code Terminal
Translated:G-Code Terminal

English:Go to Dashboard
Translated:Go to Dashboard

English:Sign Up for an Account
Translated:Sign Up for an Account

English:Create Account
Translated:Create Account

English:Username
Translated:Username

English:Enter a username
Translated:Enter a username

English:Email
Translated:Email

English:Enter your email address
Translated:Enter your email address

English:Re-enter Password
Translated:Re-enter Password

English:Confirm your Password
Translated:Confirm your Password

English:Oops! Field cannot be left blank
Translated:Oops! Field cannot be left blank

English:Sorry!  Must be a valid email address.
Translated:Sorry!  Must be a valid email address.

English:Please wait while we create your account...
Translated:Please wait while we create your account...

English:Account created
Translated:Account created

English:Success! Your account has been created.
Translated:Success! Your account has been created.

English:Please log in to continue.
Translated:Please log in to continue.

English:Oops! Invalid username, email or password.
Translated:Oops! Invalid username, email or password.

English:Generates an outline around the support material to improve strength and hold up interface layers.
Translated:Generates an outline around the support material to improve strength and hold up interface layers.

English:Create Perimeter
Translated:Create Perimeter

English:Braille Builder
Translated:Braille Builder

English:Image Converter
Translated:Image Converter

English:Text Creator
Translated:Text Creator

English:sign out
Translated:sign out

English:No macros are currently set up for this printer.
Translated:No macros are currently set up for this printer.

English:The offset of each extruder relative to the first extruder. Only useful for multiple extruder machines.
Translated:The offset of each extruder relative to the first extruder. Only useful for multiple extruder machines.

English:A modifier of the width of the extrusion for the first layer of the print. A value greater than 100% can help with adhesion to the print bed.
Translated:A modifier of the width of the extrusion for the first layer of the print. A value greater than 100% can help with adhesion to the print bed.

English:The distance from the model at which the first skirt loop is drawn. Make this 0 to create an anchor for the part to the bed, also known as a brim.
Translated:The distance from the model at which the first skirt loop is drawn. Make this 0 to create an anchor for the part to the bed, also known as a brim.

English:The speed at which the top solid layers will print. Can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.
Translated:The speed at which the top solid layers will print. Can be set explicitly or as a percentage of the Infill speed.

English:Calibration
Translated:Calibration

English:EEProm
Translated:EEProm

English:Cloud
Translated:Cloud

English:Notifications
Translated:Notifications

English:Application
Translated:Application

English:Language
Translated:Language

English:Display Mode
Translated:Display Mode

English:Parts are not on the bed or outside the print area.\n\nWould you like to center them on the bed?
Translated:Parts are not on the bed or outside the print area.\n\nWould you like to center them on the bed?

English:Parts not in print area
Translated:Parts not in print area

English:Loading G-Code...
Translated:Loading G-Code...

English:demo
Translated:demo

English:Extruder 2
Translated:Extruder 2

English:To re-calibrate the printer, or to turn off Auto Print Leveling, the print leveling controls can be found under 'Options'->'Calibration'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.
Translated:To re-calibrate the printer, or to turn off Auto Print Leveling, the print leveling controls can be found under 'Options'->'Calibration'.\n\nClick 'Done' to close this window.

English:Start G-Code cannot contain G29 if Print Leveling is enabled.
Translated:Start G-Code cannot contain G29 if Print Leveling is enabled.

English:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G29 if you are planning on using print leveling. Change your start G-Code or turn off print leveling
Translated:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G29 if you are planning on using print leveling. Change your start G-Code or turn off print leveling

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'First Layer'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'First Layer'

English:Start G-Code cannot contain G30 if Print Leveling is enabled.
Translated:Start G-Code cannot contain G30 if Print Leveling is enabled.

English:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G30 if you are planning on using print leveling. Change your start G-Code or turn off print leveling
Translated:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G30 if you are planning on using print leveling. Change your start G-Code or turn off print leveling

English:Loading G-Code
Translated:Loading G-Code

English:Estimated Mass
Translated:Estimated Mass

English:Export EEPROM Settings
Translated:Export EEPROM Settings

English:MatterControl - 
Translated:MatterControl - 

English:Export EEPROM
Translated:Export EEPROM

English:Import EEPROM Settings
Translated:Import EEPROM Settings

English:Import EEPROM
Translated:Import EEPROM

English:Center on Bed
Translated:Center on Bed

English:Would you like to save your changes before exiting the editor?
Translated:Would you like to save your changes before exiting the editor?

English:Save Changes
Translated:Save Changes

English:Snap Grid
Translated:Snap Grid

English:Retraction On Tool Change
Translated:Retraction On Tool Change

English:randomize_start
Translated:randomize_start

English:Forces the slicer to attempt to avoid having the perimeter line cross over existing perimeter lines. This can help with oozing or strings.
Translated:Forces the slicer to attempt to avoid having the perimeter line cross over existing perimeter lines. This can help with oozing or strings.

English:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Serves no purpose for slicing, but controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.
Translated:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Serves no purpose for slicing, but controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.

English:The speed at which outside, external, or the otherwise visible perimeters will print.
Translated:The speed at which outside, external, or the otherwise visible perimeters will print.

English:Used to specify if more than one extruder share a common heater cartridge.
Translated:Used to specify if more than one extruder share a common heater cartridge.

English:The actual diameter of the filament used for printing. Measure 5 times with calipers, throw out the top and bottom, and average the remaining 3.
Translated:The actual diameter of the filament used for printing. Measure 5 times with calipers, throw out the top and bottom, and average the remaining 3.

English:The height of the first layer. A first layer taller than the default layer height can ensure good adhesion to the build plate.
Translated:The height of the first layer. A first layer taller than the default layer height can ensure good adhesion to the build plate.

English:The printer has the ability to control the power supply. Enable this function to show the ATX Power Control section on the Controls pane.
Translated:The printer has the ability to control the power supply. Enable this function to show the ATX Power Control section on the Controls pane.

English:The number of loops to draw around parts. Used to provide additional bed adhesion
Translated:The number of loops to draw around parts. Used to provide additional bed adhesion

English:Skirt (Priming)
Translated:Skirt (Priming)

English:Brim (Hold Downs)
Translated:Brim (Hold Downs)

English:Finish Setup...
Translated:Finish Setup...

English:Run setup configuration for printer.
Translated:Run setup configuration for printer.

English:Name
Translated:Name

English:Make
Translated:Make

English:User Manual
Translated:User Manual

English:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.
Translated:The height of the printer's printable volume, in millimeters. Controls the height of the visual print area displayed in 3D View.

English:Extruder 3
Translated:Extruder 3

English:Extruder 4
Translated:Extruder 4

English:Undo
Translated:Undo

English:Redo
Translated:Redo

English:Set Name
Translated:Set Name

English:MatterHackers - Set Name
Translated:MatterHackers - Set Name

English:Shapes
Translated:Shapes

English:This will only work on specific hardware. Do not use unless you are sure your printer controller supports this feature
Translated:This will only work on specific hardware. Do not use unless you are sure your printer controller supports this feature

English:Show Firmware Updater
Translated:Show Firmware Updater

English:Cube
Translated:Cube

English:Cylinder
Translated:Cylinder

English:Sphere
Translated:Sphere

English:Output only the first layer of the print. Especially useful for outputting gcode data for applications like engraving or cutting.
Translated:Output only the first layer of the print. Especially useful for outputting gcode data for applications like engraving or cutting.

English:First Layer Only
Translated:First Layer Only

English:File Settings
Translated:File Settings

English:Solid Infill works best when set to LINES.
Translated:Solid Infill works best when set to LINES.

English:'First Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.
Translated:'First Layer Height' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter'.

English:'First Layer Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.
Translated:'First Layer Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.

English:Pyramid
Translated:Pyramid

English:Half Sphere
Translated:Half Sphere

English:Cone
Translated:Cone

English:Wedge
Translated:Wedge

English:Roof
Translated:Roof

English:Round Roof
Translated:Round Roof

English:Honey Comb
Translated:Honey Comb

English:Apply leveling to G-Code during export
Translated:Apply leveling to G-Code during export

English:Material 0
Translated:Material 0

English:Printers
Translated:Printers

English:The speed at which the nozzle will move when resuming a failed print, for 1 layer.
Translated:The speed at which the nozzle will move when resuming a failed print, for 1 layer.

English:Set if the z homing moves the extruder away from the bed (z-max homing)
Translated:Set if the z homing moves the extruder away from the bed (z-max homing)

English:The X and Y position of the extruder that minimizes the chance of colliding with the parts on the bed.
Translated:The X and Y position of the extruder that minimizes the chance of colliding with the parts on the bed.

English:Restore All
Translated:Restore All

English:Restore Default
Translated:Restore Default

English:Outer Surface
Translated:Outer Surface

English:Minimum Travel equiring Retraction
Translated:Minimum Travel equiring Retraction

English:Retract When Changing Islands
Translated:Retract When Changing Islands

English:Minimum Extrusion Requiring Retraction
Translated:Minimum Extrusion Requiring Retraction

English:Slow Down If Layer Print Time Is Below
Translated:Slow Down If Layer Print Time Is Below

English:Resume Failed Print
Translated:Resume Failed Print

English:Homing
Translated:Homing

English:G-Code to be run before every tool change.
Translated:G-Code to be run before every tool change.

English:Before Tool Change G-Code
Translated:Before Tool Change G-Code

English:After Tool Change G-Code
Translated:After Tool Change G-Code

English:One Time
Translated:One Time

English:Single Print Settings
Translated:Single Print Settings

English:Single Print
Translated:Single Print

English:Reset at End of Print
Translated:Reset at End of Print

English:Will Clear at End of Print
Translated:Will Clear at End of Print

English:Settings Will Clear at End of Print
Translated:Settings Will Clear at End of Print

English:Max Temp
Translated:Max Temp

English:Add a new Macro
Translated:Add a new Macro

English:Add a new Settings Preset
Translated:Add a new Settings Preset

English:Import an existing Settings Preset
Translated:Import an existing Settings Preset

English:The serial port communication speed of the printers firmware.
Translated:The serial port communication speed of the printers firmware.

English:Home Z Max
Translated:Home Z Max

English:Resume Layer Speed
Translated:Resume Layer Speed

English:XY Resume Position
Translated:XY Resume Position

English:Resume Print
Translated:Resume Print

English:It appears your last print failed to complete.\n\nWould your like to attempt to resume from the last know position?
Translated:It appears your last print failed to complete.\n\nWould your like to attempt to resume from the last know position?

English:Resume Last Print
Translated:Resume Last Print

English:mm
Translated:mm

English:mm or %
Translated:mm or %

English:count or mm
Translated:count or mm

English:°
Translated:°

English:mm/s
Translated:mm/s

English:mm/s or %
Translated:mm/s or %

English:%
Translated:%

English:layers or mm
Translated:layers or mm

English:°C
Translated:°C

English:seconds
Translated:seconds

English:layers
Translated:layers

English:Action
Translated:Action

English:ComPort
Translated:ComPort

English:Set the com port to use while connecting to this printer.
Translated:Set the com port to use while connecting to this printer.

English:If set, the printer will automatically attempt to connect when selected.
Translated:If set, the printer will automatically attempt to connect when selected.

English:Give the macro a name
Translated:Give the macro a name

English:This should be in 'G-Code'
Translated:This should be in 'G-Code'

English:Software Print Leveling
Translated:Software Print Leveling

English:Edit Preset:
Translated:Edit Preset:

English:Preset Name:
Translated:Preset Name:

English:This is the name of your printer that will be displayed in the choose printer menu.
Translated:This is the name of your printer that will be displayed in the choose printer menu.

English:Local Computer
Translated:Local Computer

English:Connection
Translated:Connection

English:Interface
Translated:Interface

English:Behavior
Translated:Behavior

English:Connection Info
Translated:Connection Info

English:Camera Monitoring
Translated:Camera Monitoring

English:Details
Translated:Details

English:Edit Printer Settings
Translated:Edit Printer Settings

English:Edit Selected Setting
Translated:Edit Selected Setting

English:Edit Current Printer Settings
Translated:Edit Current Printer Settings

English:Printer Settings
Translated:Printer Settings

English:Delete the currently selected printer profile.
Translated:Delete the currently selected printer profile.

English:Delete Printer
Translated:Delete Printer

English:Estimated Print Time
Translated:Estimated Print Time

English:The COM port to use while connecting to this printer.
Translated:The COM port to use while connecting to this printer.

English:COM Port
Translated:COM Port

English:Setup Wizard
Translated:Setup Wizard

English:Setup Options
Translated:Setup Options

English:Please wait. Generating printer profile
Translated:Please wait. Generating printer profile

English:Connect Your Device
Translated:Connect Your Device

English:Instructions:
Translated:Instructions:

English:1. Power on your 3D Printer.
Translated:1. Power on your 3D Printer.

English:2. Attach your 3D Printer via USB.
Translated:2. Attach your 3D Printer via USB.

English:3. Press 'Connect'.
Translated:3. Press 'Connect'.

English:(Press 'Skip' to setup connection later)
Translated:(Press 'Skip' to setup connection later)

English:Troubleshoot
Translated:Troubleshoot

English:Estimated Print Time:
Translated:Estimated Print Time:

English:Are you sure you want to delete your currently selected printer?
Translated:Are you sure you want to delete your currently selected printer?

English:Delete Printer?
Translated:Delete Printer?

English:The Fill Density must be between 0 and 1.
Translated:The Fill Density must be between 0 and 1.

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Infill'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'General' -> 'Infill'

English:Length of extra filament to extrude after a complete tool change (in addition to the re-extrusion of the tool change retraction distance).
Translated:Length of extra filament to extrude after a complete tool change (in addition to the re-extrusion of the tool change retraction distance).

English:Extra Length After Tool Change
Translated:Extra Length After Tool Change

English:mm zero to disable
Translated:mm zero to disable

English:Connection Troubleshooting
Translated:Connection Troubleshooting

English:Generate Extra Perimeters When Needed:
Translated:Generate Extra Perimeters When Needed:

English:mm2
Translated:mm2

English:Only Retract When  Crossing Perimeters
Translated:Only Retract When  Crossing Perimeters

English:mm/s�
Translated:mm/s�

English:mm or % leave 0 for auto
Translated:mm or % leave 0 for auto

English:Enable Fan If Layer Print Time Is Below
Translated:Enable Fan If Layer Print Time Is Below

English:Hz
Translated:Hz

English:Current Settings
Translated:Current Settings

English:Reset to defaults
Translated:Reset to defaults

English:Bake Overrides
Translated:Bake Overrides

English:Export MatterControl settings (*.printer)
Translated:Export MatterControl settings (*.printer)

English:Export Slic3r settings (*.ini)
Translated:Export Slic3r settings (*.ini)

English:Export Cura settings (*.ini)
Translated:Export Cura settings (*.ini)

English:Export Settings
Translated:Export Settings

English:Resetting to default values will remove your current overrides and restore your original printer settings.\nAre you sure you want to continue?
Translated:Resetting to default values will remove your current overrides and restore your original printer settings.\nAre you sure you want to continue?

English:Revert Settings
Translated:Revert Settings

English:Import as new printer profile
Translated:Import as new printer profile

English:Merge into current printer profile
Translated:Merge into current printer profile

English:Replace current printer profile
Translated:Replace current printer profile

English:Import Settings
Translated:Import Settings

English:Oops! Please select a serial port.
Translated:Oops! Please select a serial port.

English:The layers at which the print will pause, allowing for a change in filament. Leave blank to disable. To pause on multiple layers, separate the layer numbers with semicolons. For example: "16; 37".
Translated:The layers at which the print will pause, allowing for a change in filament. Leave blank to disable. To pause on multiple layers, separate the layer numbers with semicolons. For example: "16; 37".

English:Layers To Pause:
Translated:Layers To Pause:

English:Import Wizard
Translated:Import Wizard

English:Import settings as new QUALITY preset
Translated:Import settings as new QUALITY preset

English:Import settings as new MATERIAL preset
Translated:Import settings as new MATERIAL preset

English:Choose File
Translated:Choose File

English:Export Wizard
Translated:Export Wizard

English:Oops! Unable to recognize settings file '{0}'.
Translated:Oops! Unable to recognize settings file '{0}'.

English:Unable to Import
Translated:Unable to Import

English:You have successfully imported a new printer profile. You can find '{0}' in your list of available printers.
Translated:You have successfully imported a new printer profile. You can find '{0}' in your list of available printers.

English:Import Successful
Translated:Import Successful

English:The distance between the first layer (the bottom) and the top of the support material. A good value depends on the type of material. For PLA and ABS a value between 0.1 and 0.3 generaly works well.
Translated:The distance between the first layer (the bottom) and the top of the support material. A good value depends on the type of material. For PLA and ABS a value between 0.1 and 0.3 generaly works well.

English:Printers...
Translated:Printers...

English:Current
Translated:Current

English:Quality preset
Translated:Quality preset

English:Material preset
Translated:Material preset

English:You have successfully imported a new {0} setting. You can find '{1}' in your list of {2} settings.
Translated:You have successfully imported a new {0} setting. You can find '{1}' in your list of {2} settings.

English:Select the parts of the printer file that you would like to merge into your current profile.
Translated:Select the parts of the printer file that you would like to merge into your current profile.

English:Select Parts to Import
Translated:Select Parts to Import

English:Merge
Translated:Merge

English:Export As
Translated:Export As

English:Cura
Translated:Cura

English:You have successfully imported a new {1} setting. You can find '{0}' in your list of {1} settings.
Translated:You have successfully imported a new {1} setting. You can find '{0}' in your list of {1} settings.

English:Select what you would like to merge into your current profile.
Translated:Select what you would like to merge into your current profile.

English:Settings have been merged into your current printer.
Translated:Settings have been merged into your current printer.

English:Select What to Import
Translated:Select What to Import

English:Select section to import to preset.
Translated:Select section to import to preset.

English:Sign in to access your cloud printer profiles.\n\nOnce signed in you will be able to access:
Translated:Sign in to access your cloud printer profiles.\n\nOnce signed in you will be able to access:

English:Save your designs to the cloud and access them from anywhere in the world. You can also share them any time with with anyone you want.
Translated:Save your designs to the cloud and access them from anywhere in the world. You can also share them any time with with anyone you want.

English:Cloud Profiles
Translated:Cloud Profiles

English:Create your machine settings once, and have them available anywhere you want to print. All your changes appear on all your devices.
Translated:Create your machine settings once, and have them available anywhere you want to print. All your changes appear on all your devices.

English:Remote Monitoring
Translated:Remote Monitoring

English:Check on your prints from anywhere. With cloud monitoring, you have access to your printer no matter where you go.
Translated:Check on your prints from anywhere. With cloud monitoring, you have access to your printer no matter where you go.

English:Sign In
Translated:Sign In

English:Unable to connect to server
Translated:Unable to connect to server

English:What was my password again?
Translated:What was my password again?

English:Reset Password
Translated:Reset Password

English:Email Address
Translated:Email Address

English:A password reset code will be sent to your email.
Translated:A password reset code will be sent to your email.

English:The price of one kilogram of filament. Used for estimating the cost of a print in the Layer View.
Translated:The price of one kilogram of filament. Used for estimating the cost of a print in the Layer View.

English:Material density. Only used for estimating mass in the Layer View.
Translated:Material density. Only used for estimating mass in the Layer View.

English:Estimated Cost
Translated:Estimated Cost

English:Density
Translated:Density

English:g/cm³
Translated:g/cm³

English:Cost
Translated:Cost

English:$/kg
Translated:$/kg

English:OEM Date Modified
Translated:OEM Date Modified

English:Accept
Translated:Accept

English:Please wait until the print has finished and try again.
Translated:Please wait until the print has finished and try again.

English:Can't switch printers while printing
Translated:Can't switch printers while printing

English:Can't log out while printing
Translated:Can't log out while printing

English:Are you sure you want to logout? You will not have access to your printer profiles or cloud library.
Translated:Are you sure you want to logout? You will not have access to your printer profiles or cloud library.

English:Logout?
Translated:Logout?

English:Logout
Translated:Logout

English:Can't login while printing
Translated:Can't login while printing

English:Cloud Printer Profiles
Translated:Cloud Printer Profiles

English:Copy Guest Printers
Translated:Copy Guest Printers

English:'First Layer Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.
Translated:'First Layer Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.

English:It's time to upload your existing printers to your MatterHackers account. Once uploaded, these printers will be available every time you log into MatterControl.
Translated:It's time to upload your existing printers to your MatterHackers account. Once uploaded, these printers will be available every time you log into MatterControl.

English:Select Printers to Upload
Translated:Select Printers to Upload

English:Printers to Upload:
Translated:Printers to Upload:

English:Upload
Translated:Upload

English:Printer History
Translated:Printer History

English:Subject*
Translated:Subject*

English:Message*
Translated:Message*

English:Email Address*
Translated:Email Address*

English:Name*
Translated:Name*

English:MatterControl: Submit Feedback
Translated:MatterControl: Submit Feedback

English:How can we improve?
Translated:How can we improve?

English:Forums
Translated:Forums

English:Wiki
Translated:Wiki

English:Guides and Arcticles
Translated:Guides and Arcticles

English:Guides and Articles
Translated:Guides and Articles

English:Syncing Profiles...
Translated:Syncing Profiles...

English:G-Code
Translated:G-Code

English:Defaults Updated On: {0}
Translated:Defaults Updated On: {0}

English:Defaults Updated On: { 0} 
Translated:Defaults Updated On: { 0} 

English:Defaults Updated On: {0} 
Translated:Defaults Updated On: {0} 

English:Properties
Translated:Properties

English:Qualities
Translated:Qualities

English:Temperatures
Translated:Temperatures

English:While Printing
Translated:While Printing

English:On Tool Change
Translated:On Tool Change

English:Select a Printer.
Translated:Select a Printer.

English:The profile you are attempting to load has been corrupted. We loaded your last usable {0} {1} profile from your recent profile history instead.
Translated:The profile you are attempting to load has been corrupted. We loaded your last usable {0} {1} profile from your recent profile history instead.

English:Recovered printer profile
Translated:Recovered printer profile

English:Sorry! Looks like an account already exists for that email address.
Translated:Sorry! Looks like an account already exists for that email address.

English:Settings History
Translated:Settings History

English:Allows the printer to attempt to connect to a printer over the network.
Translated:Allows the printer to attempt to connect to a printer over the network.

English:IP Address of printer/printer controller
Translated:IP Address of printer/printer controller

English:Port number to be used with IP Adress to connect to printer over the network
Translated:Port number to be used with IP Adress to connect to printer over the network

English:IP Address
Translated:IP Address

English:Port
Translated:Port

English:Enable Network Printing
Translated:Enable Network Printing

English:Determines the method of communication used to talk to your printer.
Translated:Determines the method of communication used to talk to your printer.

English:The layer(s) at which the print will pause, allowing for a change in filament. Leave blank to disable. To pause on multiple layers, separate the layer numbers with semicolons. For example: "16; 37".
Translated:The layer(s) at which the print will pause, allowing for a change in filament. Leave blank to disable. To pause on multiple layers, separate the layer numbers with semicolons. For example: "16; 37".

English:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 will increase the amount of filament being extruded (1.1 is a good max value); decreasing it will decrease the amount being extruded (.9 is a good minimum value).
Translated:All extrusions are multiplied by this value. Increasing it above 1 will increase the amount of filament being extruded (1.1 is a good max value); decreasing it will decrease the amount being extruded (.9 is a good minimum value).

English:The distance that the perimeter will overlap itself when it completes its loop, expressed as a percentage of the Nozzle Diameter.
Translated:The distance that the perimeter will overlap itself when it completes its loop, expressed as a percentage of the Nozzle Diameter.

English:Start End Overlap
Translated:Start End Overlap

English:Layer(s) To Pause:
Translated:Layer(s) To Pause:

English:Allows the printer to attempt to connect to a printer over the network. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)
Translated:Allows the printer to attempt to connect to a printer over the network. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)

English:Allows the printer to use the s3g communication method. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)
Translated:Allows the printer to use the s3g communication method. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)

English:Enable Sailfish Communication
Translated:Enable Sailfish Communication

English:Sets MatterControl to attempt to connect to a printer over the network. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)
Translated:Sets MatterControl to attempt to connect to a printer over the network. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)

English:Sets MatterControl to use s3g communication method. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)
Translated:Sets MatterControl to use s3g communication method. (You must disconnect and reconnect for this to take effect)

English:Networked Printing
Translated:Networked Printing

English:Sailfish Communication
Translated:Sailfish Communication

English:The position (X and Y coordinates) of the center of the print bed, in millimeters. Normally this is 1/2 the bed size for Cartesian printers and 0, 0 for Delta printers.
Translated:The position (X and Y coordinates) of the center of the print bed, in millimeters. Normally this is 1/2 the bed size for Cartesian printers and 0, 0 for Delta printers.

English:Update Required
Translated:Update Required

English:There is a required update available.
Translated:There is a required update available.

English:Import Printer
Translated:Import Printer

English:Resume Settings
Translated:Resume Settings

English:Enable Resuming
Translated:Enable Resuming

English:When this is checked MatterControl will attempt to resume a print in the event of a failure, such as lost connection or lost power.
Translated:When this is checked MatterControl will attempt to resume a print in the event of a failure, such as lost connection or lost power.

English:Minimum Travel Requiring Retraction
Translated:Minimum Travel Requiring Retraction

English:Retreiving sync information...
Translated:Retreiving sync information...

English:- default -
Translated:- default -

English:Profile History
Translated:Profile History

English:Detect sections of the model that would be too thin to print, expand them, and print them.
Translated:Detect sections of the model that would be too thin to print, expand them, and print them.

English:Detect gaps between perimeters that are too thin to fill with normal infill and attempt to fill them.
Translated:Detect gaps between perimeters that are too thin to fill with normal infill and attempt to fill them.

English:Expand Thin Walls
Translated:Expand Thin Walls

English:Fill Thin Gaps
Translated:Fill Thin Gaps

English:Sign in Required
Translated:Sign in Required

English:Are you sure you want to sign out? You will not have access to your printer profiles or cloud library.
Translated:Are you sure you want to sign out? You will not have access to your printer profiles or cloud library.

English:Sign Out?
Translated:Sign Out?

English:Sign Out
Translated:Sign Out

English:Sign in
Translated:Sign in

English:Sign in to my account
Translated:Sign in to my account

English:Don't ask me again
Translated:Don't ask me again

English:Sets the models that will be added to the queue when a new printer is created.
Translated:Sets the models that will be added to the queue when a new printer is created.

English:Don't remind me again
Translated:Don't remind me again

English:Retrieving sync information...
Translated:Retrieving sync information...

English:Please sign in to continue.
Translated:Please sign in to continue.

English:The speed at which the nozzle will move when recovering a failed print, for 1 layer.
Translated:The speed at which the nozzle will move when recovering a failed print, for 1 layer.

English:When this is checked MatterControl will attempt to recover a print in the event of a failure, such as lost connection or lost power.
Translated:When this is checked MatterControl will attempt to recover a print in the event of a failure, such as lost connection or lost power.

English:Recover Print
Translated:Recover Print

English:Enable Recovery
Translated:Enable Recovery

English:Recover Layer Speed
Translated:Recover Layer Speed

English:XY Recover Position
Translated:XY Recover Position

English:Recover Settings
Translated:Recover Settings

English:Print Recovery
Translated:Print Recovery

English:XY Homing Position
Translated:XY Homing Position

English:Uh oh! Passwords do not match.
Translated:Uh oh! Passwords do not match.

English:Layers / Surface
Translated:Layers / Surface

English:Raft / Priming
Translated:Raft / Priming

English:Priming
Translated:Priming

English:First Layer Expansion
Translated:First Layer Expansion

English:Default settings updated: {0} 
Translated:Default settings updated: {0} 

English:Session Cleared
Translated:Session Cleared

English:It appears your last print failed to complete.\n\nWould your like to attempt to recover from the last know position?
Translated:It appears your last print failed to complete.\n\nWould your like to attempt to recover from the last know position?

English:Recover Last Print
Translated:Recover Last Print

English:Disconnected
Translated:Disconnected

English:Limited Connectivity
Translated:Limited Connectivity

English:Connection Status
Translated:Connection Status

English:Retry Login
Translated:Retry Login

English:It's time to migrate your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once added, these printers will be available whenever and wherever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not migrated will only be available in 'guest' mode.
Translated:It's time to migrate your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once added, these printers will be available whenever and wherever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not migrated will only be available in 'guest' mode.

English:Migrate Printers to Account
Translated:Migrate Printers to Account

English:Select and add a new printer.
Translated:Select and add a new printer.

English:Select an existing printer.
Translated:Select an existing printer.

English:The distance between the top of the support and the bottom of the model. A good value depends on the type of material. For ABS and PLA a value between 0.4 and 0.6 works well, respectively.
Translated:The distance between the top of the support and the bottom of the model. A good value depends on the type of material. For ABS and PLA a value between 0.4 and 0.6 works well, respectively.

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the print
Translated:WARNING: Disconnecting will cancel the print

English:It's time to copy your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once copied, these printers will be available whenever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not copied will only be available in 'guest' mode.
Translated:It's time to copy your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once copied, these printers will be available whenever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not copied will only be available in 'guest' mode.

English:Copy Printers to Account
Translated:Copy Printers to Account

English:Printers to Copy:
Translated:Printers to Copy:

English:Profiles
Translated:Profiles

English:Profile
Translated:Profile

English:Oops! Settings file '{0}' did not contain any settings we could import.
Translated:Oops! Settings file '{0}' did not contain any settings we could import.

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Printer' -> 'Print Recovery' -> 'Enable Recovery'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Printer' -> 'Print Recovery' -> 'Enable Recovery'

English:Start G-Code cannot contain G29 if Print Recovery is enabled.
Translated:Start G-Code cannot contain G29 if Print Recovery is enabled.

English:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G29 if you are planning on using Print Recovery. Change your start G-Code or turn off Print Recovery
Translated:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G29 if you are planning on using Print Recovery. Change your start G-Code or turn off Print Recovery

English:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G30 if you are planning on using Print Recovery. Change your start G-Code or turn off Print Recovery
Translated:Your Start G-Code should not contain a G30 if you are planning on using Print Recovery. Change your start G-Code or turn off Print Recovery

English:Search results no available in this view
Translated:Search results no available in this view

English:Sorry: Search results not available in this view
Translated:Sorry: Search results not available in this view

English:Oops! Please select a folder to search
Translated:Oops! Please select a folder to search

English:The bed is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting bed temperature in SETTINGS -> Filament -> Temperatures.\n\n{1}
Translated:The bed is currently heating and its target temperature cannot be changed until it reaches {0}°C.\n\nYou can set the starting bed temperature in SETTINGS -> Filament -> Temperatures.\n\n{1}

English:This is automatically set by MatterControl. You do not need to adjust it.
Translated:This is automatically set by MatterControl. You do not need to adjust it.

English:The amount to change the printers home position after a z home has occured. This is used by print leveling and recovery. This should not be manualy edited.
Translated:The amount to change the printers home position after a z home has occured. This is used by print leveling and recovery. This should not be manualy edited.

English:Z Home Position
Translated:Z Home Position

English:Offset After Homing
Translated:Offset After Homing

English:Leveling Calibration
Translated:Leveling Calibration

English:It's time to copy your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once copied, these printers will be available whenever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not copied will only be available when not signed in.
Translated:It's time to copy your existing printer settings to your MatterHackers account. Once copied, these printers will be available whenever you sign in to MatterControl. Printers that are not copied will only be available when not signed in.

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Printer' -> 'Custom G-Code' -> 'Start G-Code'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Printer' -> 'Custom G-Code' -> 'Start G-Code'

English:none
Translated:none

English:Exit while printing
Translated:Exit while printing

English:Are you sure you want exit while a print is running from SD Card?\n\nNote: If you exit, it is recommended you wait until the print is completed before running MatterControl again.
Translated:Are you sure you want exit while a print is running from SD Card?\n\nNote: If you exit, it is recommended you wait until the print is completed before running MatterControl again.

English:Connect printer and power on
Translated:Connect printer and power on

English:Detect perimeters that cross over themselves and combine them.
Translated:Detect perimeters that cross over themselves and combine them.

English:Merge Overlapping Lines
Translated:Merge Overlapping Lines

English:Restore Settings
Translated:Restore Settings

English:Streaming GCode...
Translated:Streaming GCode...

English:Layers & Infill
Translated:Layers & Infill

English:Raft & Support
Translated:Raft & Support

English:Redeem Code
Translated:Redeem Code

English:Library - Enter Share Code
Translated:Library - Enter Share Code

English:Macro Feedback
Translated:Macro Feedback

English:OK
Translated:OK

English:Load Filament
Translated:Load Filament

English:UnloadFilament
Translated:UnloadFilament

English:This controls the ratio of material extruded during bridging. Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, and using a fan can also help greatly.
Translated:This controls the ratio of material extruded during bridging. Reducing this slightly can help bridging by stretching the filament more, and using a fan can also help greatly.

English:Each individual part is printed to completion then the nozzle is lowered back to the bed and the next part is printed.
Translated:Each individual part is printed to completion then the nozzle is lowered back to the bed and the next part is printed.

English:Moves the nozzle up and off the part to allow cooling.
Translated:Moves the nozzle up and off the part to allow cooling.

English:Detects sections of the model that would be too thin to print and expands them to make them printable.
Translated:Detects sections of the model that would be too thin to print and expands them to make them printable.

English:Indicates that the Z axis homes the hot end away from the bed (z-max homing)
Translated:Indicates that the Z axis homes the hot end away from the bed (z-max homing)

English:The X and Y position of the hot end that minimizes the chance of colliding with the parts on the bed.
Translated:The X and Y position of the hot end that minimizes the chance of colliding with the parts on the bed.

English:The temperature to which the nozzle will be heated before printing the first layer of a part. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing.
Translated:The temperature to which the nozzle will be heated before printing the first layer of a part. The printer will wait until this temperature has been reached before printing.

English:This will lower the temperature of the non-printing nozzle to help prevent oozing.
Translated:This will lower the temperature of the non-printing nozzle to help prevent oozing.

English:The distance that a perimeter will overlap itself when it completes its loop, expressed as a percentage of the Nozzle Diameter.
Translated:The distance that a perimeter will overlap itself when it completes its loop, expressed as a percentage of the Nozzle Diameter.

English:Forces the print to have only one extrusion and gradually increase the Z height during the print. Only one part will print at a time with this feature.
Translated:Forces the print to have only one extrusion and gradually increase the Z height during the print. Only one part will print at a time with this feature.

English:The number of degrees Centigrade to lower the temperature of a nozzle while it is not active.
Translated:The number of degrees Centigrade to lower the temperature of a nozzle while it is not active.

English:Disconnect and stop the current print?
Translated:Disconnect and stop the current print?

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will stop the current print
Translated:WARNING: Disconnecting will stop the current print

English:WARNING: Disconnecting will stop the current print.\n\nAre you sure you want to disconnect?
Translated:WARNING: Disconnecting will stop the current print.\n\nAre you sure you want to disconnect?

English:Select a printer.
Translated:Select a printer.

English:Note: Be sure the tip of the extruder is clean.
Translated:Note: Be sure the tip of the extruder is clean.

English:- none -
Translated:- none -

English:Actions
Translated:Actions

English:Show In Action Menu
Translated:Show In Action Menu

English:Unable to Connect
Translated:Unable to Connect

English:Port number to be used with IP Address to connect to printer over the network
Translated:Port number to be used with IP Address to connect to printer over the network

English:Reset to Defaults
Translated:Reset to Defaults

English:The serial port to use while connecting to this printer.
Translated:The serial port to use while connecting to this printer.

English:Save Changed
Translated:Save Changed

English:Discard Changes
Translated:Discard Changes

English:Stay Connected
Translated:Stay Connected

English:Cancel Print
Translated:Cancel Print

English:Continue Printing
Translated:Continue Printing

English:Recovered Once
Translated:Recovered Once

English:Recovered once
Translated:Recovered once

English:recovered once
Translated:recovered once

English:Add New Printer
Translated:Add New Printer

English:Add New Setting
Translated:Add New Setting

English:Sync Dashboard
Translated:Sync Dashboard

English:SD Card
Translated:SD Card

English:MatterControl: Select Firmware File
Translated:MatterControl: Select Firmware File

English:Starting firmware update...
Translated:Starting firmware update...

English:Disconnecting from printer...
Translated:Disconnecting from printer...

English:Initializing hardware...
Translated:Initializing hardware...

English:Creating firmware backup...
Translated:Creating firmware backup...

English:Update In Progress: {0}
Translated:Update In Progress: {0}

English:Updating firmware...
Translated:Updating firmware...

English:Firmware updated successfully. Please reconnect.
Translated:Firmware updated successfully. Please reconnect.

English:The 'Serial Port' section lists all available serial\nports on your device. Changing which USB port the printer\nis conneted to may change the associated serial port.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain, unplug/plug in your printer\nand hit refresh. The new port that appears should be\nyour printer.
Translated:The 'Serial Port' section lists all available serial\nports on your device. Changing which USB port the printer\nis conneted to may change the associated serial port.\n\nTip: If you are uncertain, unplug/plug in your printer\nand hit refresh. The new port that appears should be\nyour printer.

English:Reverting firmware to previous version...
Translated:Reverting firmware to previous version...

English:Firmware restored successfully. Please reconnect.
Translated:Firmware restored successfully. Please reconnect.

English:SET
Translated:SET

English:Move X negative
Translated:Move X negative

English:Move X positive
Translated:Move X positive

English:Move Y positive
Translated:Move Y positive

English:Move Y negative
Translated:Move Y negative

English:Move Z positive
Translated:Move Z positive

English:Move Z negative
Translated:Move Z negative

English:Enable cursor keys for movement
Translated:Enable cursor keys for movement

English:Retract filament
Translated:Retract filament

English:Extrude filament
Translated:Extrude filament

English:Home X, Y and Z
Translated:Home X, Y and Z

English:Home X
Translated:Home X

English:Home Y
Translated:Home Y

English:Home Z
Translated:Home Z

English:Open cloud sync dashboard in web browser
Translated:Open cloud sync dashboard in web browser

English:Restart
Translated:Restart

English:Please Review Your Order
Translated:Please Review Your Order

English:Loading product information. Pleast wait...
Translated:Loading product information. Pleast wait...

English:Enter Code: 
Translated:Enter Code: 

English:Use Promo Code
Translated:Use Promo Code

English:Applying...
Translated:Applying...

English:Enter your Billing Address
Translated:Enter your Billing Address

English:Full Name
Translated:Full Name

English:Enter your Payment Info
Translated:Enter your Payment Info

English:Place Order
Translated:Place Order

English:Additional payment options coming soon!
Translated:Additional payment options coming soon!

English:- Please Select -
Translated:- Please Select -

English:Credit Card Number
Translated:Credit Card Number

English:Expiration Date
Translated:Expiration Date

English:Card Verification Number
Translated:Card Verification Number

English:Saving...
Translated:Saving...

English:Oops! Payment has been declined.
Translated:Oops! Payment has been declined.

English:Distance or Loops
Translated:Distance or Loops

English:The z offset to apply to improve the first layer adhesion.
Translated:The z offset to apply to improve the first layer adhesion.

English:Baby Step Offset
Translated:Baby Step Offset

English:Oops! Unable to initialize device.
Translated:Oops! Unable to initialize device.

English:The distance between the top of the raft and the bottom of the model. 0.6 mm is a good starting point for PLA and 0.4 mm is a good starting point for ABS. Lower values give a smoother surface, higher values make the print easier to remove.
Translated:The distance between the top of the raft and the bottom of the model. 0.6 mm is a good starting point for PLA and 0.4 mm is a good starting point for ABS. Lower values give a smoother surface, higher values make the print easier to remove.

English:Clear ZOffset
Translated:Clear ZOffset

English:Printing Window...
Translated:Printing Window...

English:Only Retract When Crossing Perimeters
Translated:Only Retract When Crossing Perimeters

English:baby_step_z_offset
Translated:baby_step_z_offset

English:gcode_arcs
Translated:gcode_arcs

English:calibration_files
Translated:calibration_files

English:'External Perimeter Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.
Translated:'External Perimeter Extrusion Width' must be less than or equal to the 'Nozzle Diameter' * 4.

English:External Perimeter Extrusion Width = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}
Translated:External Perimeter Extrusion Width = {0}\nNozzle Diameter = {1}

English:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'External Perimeter'
Translated:Location: 'Settings & Controls' -> 'Settings' -> 'Filament' -> 'Extrusion' -> 'External Perimeter'

English:'External Perimeter Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.
Translated:'External Perimeter Extrusion Width' must be greater than 0.

English:External Perimeter Extrusion Width = {0}
Translated:External Perimeter Extrusion Width = {0}

English:The starting height (z) of the print head before probing each print level position.
Translated:The starting height (z) of the print head before probing each print level position.

English:Probe Start Height
Translated:Probe Start Height

English:Controls the speed of printer moves
Translated:Controls the speed of printer moves

English:Controls the amount of extrusion
Translated:Controls the amount of extrusion

English:feedrate_ratio
Translated:feedrate_ratio

English:extrusion_ratio
Translated:extrusion_ratio

